# Game Setting

---
Chronicles is a sword & sorcery fantasy game set in a pre-industrial world called Evren.  Our chapter primarily centers around the port town of Varos within the Kingdom of the Terran Valley.  Adventurers from all over this world meet in Varos for the market fairs.

In Evren, adventurers may be regarded as <i>different</i> from the normal folk in the world.  

A weekend event is referred to as a market fair and these are nearly always held in Varos, but Evren has plenty of other locations to visit, ~explode~ explore, form alliances, build towns, make enemies, and more.  A longer, player-maintained glossary of in world places and people can be found in the glossary of the rulebook.

## Game Atmosphere
Chronicles science, medicine, and technology is roughly equivalent to 14th century Earth.  For roleplay, players are encouraged to act, speak, and behave as if they exist in that time frame.  We do of course allow players to use modern medicine but if possible, it should be done away from a large crowd to promote the in game atmosphere.

### Religion
There are beings known as archons in Chronicles, but how a character views or engages with them is up to the individual player.  No character is required to worship an archon.

We strive to be inclusive and respectful at Chronicles and do not want anyone to be in the situation of giving offense to others.  The use of any real world religious symbols or iconography in the game, including costuming, garb, or props, is explicitly disallowed.  Similarly, in roleplay, it is unacceptable to use invocations of gods, demons, mythical creatures, legends, or other recognizable figures of real world religious, spiritual, or mythological importance.

### Politics
In game politics are part of life. Whether a character wishes to serve the king loyally, ignore his command, or attempt a rebellion is up to them!  Just know that there may be in-game consequences for a character's actions.  OOG political symbols, slogans, and iconography are explicitly disallowed.

### Necromancy
Evren as a whole does not view necromancy as an inherently evil or bad thing, though most people find it at least distasteful. There are laws against it in nearly all kingdoms, and for those where it isn't, there are guilds that regulate and oversee its use.

### Wizards' Guild of Varos
The Wizards' Guild, sometimes referred to as the mage's guild, is located in Varos.  Joining the guild costs 1 gold per year, payable to Logistics.

Member Benefits
* Roleplay benefits such as titled positions, research requests, access to rare books and artifacts, or augmentation of a Knowledge Skill.
* Access to select limited use, special, or rare ritual scrolls and production recipes. 

Benefits Available To Everyone
* Access to the Standard Library of Ritual Scrolls.
* May access a small library of books that grant Rank 10 Knowledge on specific topics such as cultures of the Khuurai Steppe or psychopomps of the northern lands.  Check with the Wizards' Guild for the most up-to-date listing!

### Crafters' Guild of Varos
The Crafters' Guild is a place where characters may rent fully equipped workshops, allowing them to begin their journey as a producer of goods.  This guild does not have any annual membership fees and provides the following benefits:
* Roleplay benefits such as titled positions, research requests, or augmentation of a Knowledge Skill.
* May purchase Anima Gems for 1 gold each.
* May rent the tools and space required for producing goods for 1 silver per item, up to 10 total items.
  * Crafting in excess of this limit requires a character to invest in their own space and tools.  A character may purchase their own workshop for 1 year at the cost of 5 gold, payable to Logistics.  Character workshops may only be used by the character that purchased it.
