# Storytelling & Goals

## Adventures (Mods)
If adventurers are leaving town to do anything they are heading out for a mod (named after the tabletop pre-designed "modules"). Mods are how staff/plot (the people) drive a plot (the narrative) when a character decides on a course of action.  On occasion, the mod will come to the players, and NPCs will arrive at the market fair looking for a fight or maybe even someone to go do something for them. Mods do not always mean fighting, but there is a reason some of Evren's cities are encircled with walls. The goal of a mod is to make the story move a little.

## Town Encounters (Town Mods)
While a character may have or make personal stories with interactions with other characters and NPCs, sometimes things are larger than a single character. Happenings that absorb the effort of everyone at the market fair are adventures. Whether that's the whole town being transported to another dimension and finding a way out, or the local Orc tribes have started sieging Varos. These are opportunities to work together and drive a story forward someone otherwise may have never touched. The goal of adventures is teamwork and creating character interactions.

## Storyline
Any collection of mods and adventures adds up to a plot line, storyline, or plot (narrative).  Plot lines at Chronicles often interlace and are generally involved with adventures & mods. Plot lines hopefully culminate with a narrative payoff. For some players, that might be completing a transform prerequisite, magic items, narrative satisfaction as they banish a metaphorical ghost of their character's past, or winning the trust of fellow adventurers. The goal of a plot line is to put characters on the stage and see how they react to particular situations.  At any time, if a player finds they did not enjoy something on a storyline or mod, they are encouraged to tell staff/plot.  We want all of our players to have fun and will strive to correct bad experiences when we are made aware of them.

## Goals
The goal of telling stories of any size and medium is the entertainment of its audience. Staff/plot is not a separate team in opposition to players. Staff/plot is trying to create an enjoyable experience for all players and have some fun for themselves. LARP is a collaborative experience, and if a player is not having fun or did not like how something happened, they are strongly encouraged to vocalize it to staff/plot so that we can work together to resolve it.


