# Ranged Weapons
---

|  WEAPON  |    LIMB LENGTH   |  TOTAL WIDTH  | TOTAL LENGTH |
|:---------|:----------------:|:-------------:|:------------:|
| Bow      |    17" - 29"     |    1" - 12"   |   34" - 58"  |
| Crossbow |    >6" - 12"     |  >12" - 24"   |   12" - 24"  |
| Thrown   |       N/A        |    2" - 12"   |   6" - 18"   |

### Weapon Specific Rules ###
* Real archery reps are disallowed.  Packet Bows are allowed on a case-by-case basis.
* All combat reps must be certified as safe. Safety checks for all combat reps may be performed at check-in.  Safety checks MUST be performed EVERY EVENT; they do not carry over from prior events.  A marshal may request to inspect your reps at any time during the event and, if deemed unsafe, may lose their safety certification.

#### Bow ####
* Must be curved and formed in the shape of a bow.
* Total length refers to the measurement of a straight line between tip to tip.
* Total width refers to the measurement of the curve.

#### Crossbow #### 
* Limb length refers to the distance in which each limb extends from the stock.
* If you wrap a string around the perimeter of the rep, the area it encloses must be at least 72 sq. in. (A 12" base, 12" height isosceles triangle).
* If attached to your arm, you cannot use the bow while holding anything else in that hand, you cannot use the crossbow to block attacks, and you cannot attack with any melee weapons in either hand. If you want to be able to block with a shield, a weapon, or attack with a weapon, you must first remove the crossbow from your arm (or securely fold the limbs to the stock).
* If you are struck by any weapon, even if it does not strike the bow, you must spend at least 3 seconds roleplaying restringing the bow before you may fire it again.
* Subject to more rigorous safety inspection.  It is **strongly** advised that you run your design idea past the staff before you begin construction; we would hate to see someone put a lot of time, effort, and resources into something that won't meet safety expectations.

#### Thrown ####
* If made of open cell foam, may be covered with a suitable material such as fabric, duct tape, kite tape, or plastidip.
* If made from closed cell foam, may not have a core and should be shaped into the type of object it is intended to be a rep for.