# Skillsets

---
## Skillset Prioritization
Chronicles uses a classless skill system where players may choose primary and secondary skillsets for their character.  The skillsets not chosen as a primary or secondary will become the character's tertiary.  Choosing these skillsets will adjust the skill point costs of the skills within each skillset.  The available skillsets are named thematically for their related skills, which can give the average player a general idea of what they modify.

### Arcane Skillset
The Arcane skillset enables a character to delve into Arcane magic and cast Arcane spells.

### Fighter Skillset
This skillset has a higher focus on the skills most related to fighting.  It has reduced costs for skills like weapon proficiencies, armor, shield, and stamina.

### Nature Skillset
The Nature skillset enables a character to delve into Nature magic and cast Nature spells.

### Spirit Skillset
The Spirit skillset enables a character to delve into Nature magic and cast Spirit spells.

### Rogue Skillset
This skillset has a higher focus on the skills most related to subterfuge and utility.  It has reduced costs for skills such as agility, lockpicking, trapping, and escaping.

### Thaumaturgy Skillset
The Thaumaturgy skillset enables a character to access all schools' spells, and to be able to refill their mana pool without Resting, but at the cost of a vastly decreased mana pool.

### General Skillset
This skillset encompasses skills that have a general availability.  There are no cost adjustments for the skills in this skillset.  This skillset cannot be chosen as a primary, secondary, or tertiary skillset.