# Fighter Skillset

---

| Skill | Primary | Secondary | Tertiary |
|---|---|---|---|
|One-Handed Proficiency|10+2|10+5|10+10|
|Off-Handed Proficiency|10+2|10+5|10+10|
|Ranged Proficiency|10+2|10+5|10+10|
|Two-Handed Proficiency|10+2|10+5|10+10|
|Armor Training|3+1|3+2|3+3|
|Shield|3|5|8|
|Stamina Points|5+3|5+5|20+10|
|Toughness|3+3|3+4|3+5|

## One-Handed Proficiency  
This skill allows the character to wield a single one-handed weapon in their designated main hand in combat, and increases the amount of damage done with One-Handed Weapons in the main hand by 1 for each purchase.  This applies to any one-handed weapon, including unarmed and claws.

## Off-Handed Proficiency  
This skill allows the character to wield a second One-Handed Weapon, in their designated offhand, in combat, and increases the amount of damage done by One-Handed Weapons in the offhand by 1 for each purchase. At least one weapon must be of Short Length or lower. This skill does not apply other skills or abilities to both weapon hands. Requires an equal or greater number of purchases of One-Handed Weapon Skill.

## Ranged Proficiency  
This skill allows the character to wield a ranged weapon in combat. Ranged weapons include bow, crossbow, and throwing weapons. Bows and crossbows may be used to block attacks, but must be restrung prior to continued use.

## Two-Handed Proficiency  
Allows the character to wield two-handed weapons in combat, such as polearms and two-handed swords. Attacking with a two-handed weapon always requires both hands to be wielding the weapon. A character wielding a two-handed weapon with only one hand may block attacks with that weapon, so long as their other hand is empty.

## Armor Training  
This skill adds 5 points of maximum armor to the character for each time that this skill is purchased. To gain benefit from this skill, the character must also wear proper physreps for the armor (see: Armor) . Armor stacks with the 5 points of Armor every character gets by default.

## Shield  
This skill allows the character to wield a shield in combat. A shield may NEVER be used for striking in combat. Shields may not be used with two-handed weapons, bows, or crossbows. A character may not dual wield shields. (See: Shields)

## Stamina Points  
Increases the characters Stamina Pool by 10 points. Stamina Points are expended to perform Stamina Abilities (See: Stamina). Stamina Pool Points are refreshed upon a successful Rest.

## Toughness  
This skill adds 5 points of maximum health to the character for each time that this skill is purchased.