# Resting

## Resetting Skills and Magic Items

---
Adventurers are powerful individuals who rely on magic and skill to defeat their enemies. This expenditure of endurance both physically and magically takes a toll on even the most mighty of heroes on Evren. Even the most powerful of artifacts requires time to recharge its stores. 

There are two ways skills and magic items can be recharged and used again:  Rest or Per Day.

## Rest
Rest is a short period of time to recuperate and regain expended skills and abilities. Upon the completion of a Rest, a character's ability pools will be reset to full, and any per-Rest abilities are renewed and able to be used again.

Resting takes 10 minutes. Using any game skills, running, losing health, dying, or otherwise engaging in strenuous activity will interrupt the Rest, and require it to be restarted. A character may not initiate a Rest within two hours of the completion of a previous Rest. A player may also choose to NPC during their character's Rest Time for more game rewards!
 
The player must record the time of their Rest on their battleboard or character sheet, and must inform a Logistics Marshal as soon as is convenient.

When a player checks in, they will be issued a labeled battleboard. Logistics will also label additional battleboards with the player and character's name, and these will be kept in a file folder at logistics. When the player wants to Rest, they'll need to head to logistics to swap out their old battleboard for their next one.

The file folders will be accessible by players in such a way that, if a logistics marshal isn't present at that time, the player can still exchange their battleboards. The player is still responsible for informing the logistics marshal at their earliest convenience, or leave a note with their name and the time they swapped out their battleboards at the logistics station.

During an event, a character may Rest a number of times equal to twice the number of the game days in the event, minus one.  

> Example:
> A character may Rest up to 3 times during a 2-day event (aka, the most common and typical Chronicles event).
> For a 3-day event (such as Memorial Day and Labor Day weekends), a character may Rest up to 5 times.

## Per Day

---
Magic items, production skills, and some effects recharge or expire at the end of the day. This time occurs at 6pm (out of game) each day. This happens automatically and is not considered a Rest period.
