
# Skills
Skills and abilities are how your character can mechanically affect the game world. Casting spells, wielding weapons, and creating items are all actions governed by the Skills system.

## Skills, Abilities, Spells, and Effects
**Skills** are persistent benefits that are always available and never expended. They may grant bonuses, proficiencies, or additional resource pools. Skills are acquired with Skill Points.  
**Abilities** are activated physical techniques that a character chooses to use, often by spending resources such as Stamina Points or Agility Points.  
**Spells** are activated magical techniques that a character casts by spending Mana Points.  
**Effects** are the specific results delivered by activated rules. Abilities, Spells, consumable items, monster traits, and similar activated mechanics may all deliver Effects.

>An Effect is _what_ happens.
>An Ability, Spell, or item activation is _how_ it happens.

## Skill Points
Skill Points, overall, represent your character's competency at various tasks. The more Skill Points a character has, the more skilled or talented they are at the kinds of tasks covered by the skills system. This competency may be expressed by focusing deeply on a small subset of skills, or by having a less deep but much more broad array of skills. 

### Acquiring Skill Points
Skill Points are allocated by the player to purchase skills and abilities for their character. The only way to acquire Skill Points is to attend Chronicles events, either as a player or as an NPC volunteer. For each [[game day]] attended, a player earns 3 Skill Points. An additional Skill Point may be earned by volunteering for an [[NPC shift]] each game day, for a total of 4 Skill Points possible.  

| Event Type            | Game Days | SP Earned | With NPC Shifts |
| --------------------- |:---------:|:---------:|:---------------:|
| Typical Weekend Event |     2     |     6     |        8        |
| 3-day Weekend Event   |     3     |     9     |       12        |
#### New Player Skill Point Bonus
While under 200 Total Skill Points, players gain double the amount of Skill Points.
> [!Example]
> Roderick the Red has 120 Total Skill Points. They attend a 2-day event and do an NPC shift each day. They would have earned 8 Skill Points, but because they are under 200 Total Skill Points, they instead earn 16 Skill Points.

### Allocating Skill Points
Throughout this chapter, you'll see references to the **Base Cost** and **Incremental Cost** of a skill, usually in the **X+Y** format. Each skill has an initial purchase cost (the **Base Cost** of the skill). Each time a skill is purchased, the cost to purchase the next rank of the skill is increased, cumulatively, by the **Increment Cost** of the skill. 

> [!NOTE] For the math-curious
> The formula to calculate total SP cost for a given number of ranks is:
> `Total SP Cost = (numberOfRanks / 2) * (2 * baseCost + (numberOfRanks - 1) * incrementCost)`

For a Fighter primary character, the skill One-Handed Proficiency has a base cost of **10** and an **Increment Cost** of **2**, presented as **10+2**. These are the total SP costs of purchasing One-Handed Proficiency a number of times:

| One-Handed Proficiency Ranks | Total SP Cost | Cost Breakdown         |
| ---------------------------- | ------------- | ---------------------- |
| 1                            | 10            | 10                     |
| 2                            | 22            | 10 + 12                |
| 3                            | 36            | 10 + 12 + 14           |
| 4                            | 52            | 10 + 12 + 14 + 16      |
| 5                            | 70            | 10 + 12 + 14 + 16 + 18 |

Some skills cost the same regardless of a character's skillset placement (such as **Additional Defense Slot**). Those skills will have only a **Primary** cost listed.

For skills that may only be purchased a single time (such as the **Shield** skill), there will be no **Increment Cost** listed.

### Reallocating Skill Points
Characters with fewer than 200 Skill Points may be entirely recreated or rewritten between events, including the character's name, race, skillset selection, SP expenditures, and history. Changing the character's name, race, and history requires notifying the Plot Team of the change. This allows new players to try different character concepts without fear of being "locked in" to an unfun character or build, or one that doesn't pan out as expected.

Between events, all characters are allowed to change their chosen primary and secondary skillsets, as well as their purchased skills (including non-obligatory transform skills). A character's name, race, and history may only be altered with approval from the Plot Team.

During an event, characters may only reallocate their Skill Points as the result of extraordinary circumstances, plot effects, or when unlocking transform abilities. **All** Skill Point and Skill modifications during an event require explicit approval from the Head of Plot.
_(Note: A player cannot reallocate any Skill Points that had been invested in Gathering and Production skills that were used to gather resources or produce items previously in the same event (including at check-in), and the character will not be able to gather resources or produces items as a result of reallocating Skill Points into those skills in the same event.)_


### SP Debt
SP Debt (or Skill Point Debt) occurs when a character dies and [[resurrects]] during an event. The act of the spirit reforming a new physical is taxing on the spirit character, rendering them weakened for a time. A character's Effective Skill Points are the SP available to be allocated towards purchasing skills. SP Debt reduces a characters Effective Skill Points until the debt is paid off.

#### Incurring SP Debt
The amount of SP Debt accrued  per [[Death]] is proportional to the player's Effective Skill Points at the start of the event at which they died. This means that, for a given event, a character will incur the same amount of SP Debt for each [[Death]] at the event. _(In other words, dying does not cause the SP Debt incurred to be reduced for subsequent deaths that same event.)_

SP Debt is incurred at a rate of 5% of the character's Effective Skill Points as of the start of the event during which they died.  SP Debt is only calculated once the event ends; a player will never need to re-allocate their Skill Points mid-event due to SP Debt. 

#### Repaying SP Debt
After each event attended, a character's Total Debt is reduced by 25% rounded down or 3 SP, whichever is higher.

Skill Points and SP Debt are recalculated in the following order **after** each event:
```
Debt Repaid = Pre-event Total Debt * .25
Debt Accrued = .05 * Pre-Event Effective SP * Number of Deaths 
Total Debt = Debt Accrued - Debt Repaid
Total Skill Points = Total Skill Points + Event SP
Effective Skill Points = Total Skill Points - Total Debt 
```

#### SP Debt Examples
##### SP Debt: Example 1
| Pre-Event Total SP | Pre-Event Effective SP | Pre-Event Total Debt | Deaths | Debt Repaid | Debt Accrued | New Total Debt | SP Gained | New Total SP | New Effective SP |
| ------------------ | ---------------------- | -------------------- | ------ | ----------- | ------------ | -------------- | --------- | ------------ | ---------------- |
| 200                | 200                    | 0                    | 1      | 0           | 10           | 10             | 6         | 206          | 196              |
| 206                | 196                    | 10                   | 0      | 3           | 0            | 7              | 6         | 212          | 205              |
| 212                | 205                    | 7                    | 0      | 3           | 0            | 4              | 6         | 218          | 214              |
| 218                | 214                    | 4                    | 0      | 3           | 0            | 1              | 6         | 224          | 223              |
| 224                | 223                    | 1                    | 0      | 1           | 0            | 0              | 6         | 230          | 230              |
| 230                | 230                    | 0                    | 0      | 0           | 0            | 0              | 6         | 236          | 236              |



##### SP Debt: Example 2
| Pre-Event Total SP | Pre-Event Effective SP | Pre-Event Total Debt | Deaths | Debt Repaid | Debt Accrued | New Total Debt | SP Gained | New Total SP | New Effective SP |
|:------------------:|:----------------------:|:--------------------:|:------:|:-----------:|:------------:|:--------------:|:---------:|:------------:|:----------------:|
|        400         |          400           |          0           | **1**  |      0      |      20      |       20       |     6     |     406      |       386        |
|        406         |          386           |          20          |   0    |      5      |      0       |       15       |     6     |     412      |       397        |
|        412         |          397           |          15          | **1**  |      4      |      19      |       30       |     6     |     418      |       388        |
|        418         |          388           |          30          |   0    |      8      |      0       |       22       |     6     |     424      |       402        |
|        424         |          402           |          22          |   0    |      6      |      0       |       16       |     6     |     430      |       414        |
|        430         |          414           |          16          |   0    |      4      |      0       |       12       |     6     |     436      |       424        |
|        436         |          424           |          12          |   0    |      3      |      0       |       9        |     6     |     442      |       433        |
|        442         |          433           |          9           |   0    |      3      |      0       |       6        |     6     |     448      |       442        |
|        448         |          442           |          6           |   0    |      3      |      0       |       3        |     6     |     454      |       451        |
|        454         |          451           |          3           |   0    |      3      |      0       |       0        |     6     |     460      |       460        |

Each event a player attends reduces their SP Debt.

### Permanent Death
If a character's SP Debt exceeds 25% of their Total Skill Points, that character suffers [[Permanent Death]]]] and the player may not play as that character. This is an exceptionally rare occurrence: a character with 0 SP Debt would need to suffer *at least* 6 [[Deaths]] in a single event to be forced into permanent death. 

## Skillsets
The various skills that your character can employ are grouped into skillsets. The cost of primary skillset skills is greatly reduced, while the cost of secondary skills are somewhat reduced. This means that a character's primary skillset represents the main focus of the character's abilities, and their secondary skillset reflects supporting or synergistic skills.



### Fighter
The Fighter skillset covers the ability to wield weapons and shields, to wear physical armor, increase Toughness, and acquire Stamina Points.

### Rogue
The Rogue skillset includes prowess at surprise attacks, archery, resourcefulness, and evasiveness
Rogue Primaries tend to be archers or melee combatants focused on sneak attacks. They have access to a number of utility skills that offer great flexibility, such as allowing them to disable foes, mimic abilities from other skillsets, and pick locks.

### Arcane
| Skill              | Primary | Secondary | Tertiary |
| ------------------ | ------- | --------- | -------- |
| Attunement: Arcane | 4+2     | 4+4       | 10+10    |

### Nature
The Nature skillset is a school of magic focused on disabling and incapacitating foes. With access to spells that allow them to stun enemies, disarm weapons, and force targets to keep their distance, Nature casters are the premier crowd control mages.

### Spirit
The Spirit skillset is a school of magic comprised of spells that heal wounds and cleanse negative effects, as well as curse enemies with various afflictions. 

### Thaumaturgy
Thaumatugy is an advanced skillset. Thaumaturges are generalist spellcasters that have access to fewer spells than other mages, but are able to replenish their mana without needing to rest. Thaumaturgy can only be used if it is a character's primary skillset, and precludes purchasing skills from the Arcane, Nature, and Spirit skillsets.

### Artisan
The Artisan skillset is concerned with the harvesting of raw materials and the creation of equipment and consumable, single-use items. 