# Character Races
## Who can play which races?
The 12 standard races in this rulebook may be played by anyone, regardless of real life age, gender, height, body type, skin color, or any other attribute, really.

A character is always the size as the person that character _(with some exceptions specifically for NPCs. See [NPCs])._ Consequentially, the playable races do not have set body types: Dwarves are not, on average, shorter than humans. Elves are not taller, Orcs are not necessarily more broad; they are exactly as tall or broad as the people playing them.

## Portraying Your Character's Race
Aside from Humans, each race has specific makeup, prosthetic, or costuming requirements. Chronicles endeavors to be as inclusive as possible; **If there is a race you are interested in playing, but are unable to properly conform to those requirements _(such as a makeup allergy)_, reach out to your local plot team. They will happily work with you to accommodate individual circumstances.**

> Note: The race of your character is always immediately visible and obvious to any other character that sees you. There are magical effects that can alter the race your character appears to be, but absent being under one of those effects, any person that perceives you _(ie, asks you the OOG question "What do I see?" or "What race are you?")_ is able to know your characters race, even if you have attempted to physically obfuscate your race's distinctive physical features.

## Roleplaying a Race
Individual members of a race may have a tendency towards certain personality traits and behaviors. While these are not hard-and-fast rules, the vast majority of individuals will exhibit these traits. It is highly recommended that players incorporate, in some way, the traits appropriate to the race they are playing. 

> Note: While it is _possible_ to be an Orc librarian, or a Flame Unbound that loves swimming, it can be quite difficult to portray it in such a way that it does not break the immersiveness of the game for other players. 

## Race vs Culture
In Chronicles, "Race" is synonymous with "Species."

Individuals of each race will share many characteristics, but the culture from which an individual hails typically has a much greater impact on a character's beliefs and values. Elves are frequently stereotyped to be elitist and arrogant, and while this is certainly true of most of the High Elf kingdoms, the Sun Elves of the archipelago are notoriously egalitarian.

## Half Races
For the purposes of game mechanics, a character is considered to have only one race. While it is possible to play a character that identifies themselves as a "half-elf", the player must make the choice to use the rules and mechanics for either elf or human. This means that the character will have access to only one race's racial abilities, and must provide the race listed on their character sheet when asked the OOG question "What do I see?" _(see [Identifying Other Players](Identifying Other Characters)_). The player is free to incorporate the culture of either, both, or neither of those races as they like.

## Races [!toc-collapse]
### Brood [!toc-exclude-children-only]
#### Feral Brood
The brood are a race of insect-like humanoids who have only recently found personhood and individually. Like ants and bees, they were a eusocial organism where each individual was merely a drone, with limited personality and autonomy. They could communicate telepathically with other members of their hive, forming a collective consciousness known as the Hive Mind. 

Within the past few decades emerged autonomous brood, independent individuals that are not dependent upon the hive mind to survive. In fact, they have at best limited connection to their hive's collective consciousness. Their hives have transformed from eusocial colonies to thriving towns and cities as individualism takes hold. 

Like all intelligent peoples, there are brood merchants, sailors, soldiers, and all other manner of professions, but the vast majority are farmers and ranchers. Brood society is starkly egalitarian. With so many of them remembering life in the hive mind, there is a societally ingrained tendency towards efficiency. Brood lack familiar family structures, instead tending to view their entire hive as an extended family.  

It is easy for an outsider to the hive to believe the commonly-held misunderstanding that brood do not possess empathy. Being such a young society, and so recently in their history truly lacking any concept of morality, brood as a people tend to come at the idea of ethics from the side.

While the hive mind does not possess empathy in a form we would recognize 

#### Feral Brood
Known as "Feral Brood", these pre-individualistic brood hives resembled ant colonies. The single queen of the hive laid eggs which would hatch into brood of various different phenotypes, such as worker drones, scouts, soldiers, and elite executioners, depending on the needs of the hive as a whole.

Feral brood are incredibly difficult to capture alive. Should a feral brood become restrained or incapacitated, or disconnected from their hive mind for more than a short period of time , it will immediately discorporate. With feral hives being insular and aggressive with regards to anything that is not part of their hive, studying them proves to be quite problematic.


```**From _The Accounts of Lord Timaeus_**

Sometime around the year 5220, I became aware of myself. Difficult to articulate memories from when before a person. Not right mind. But remember becoming a person, becoming own mind. 

I was executioner; I was elite soldier. Was hunting enemy brood far from hive when happened. Caught some, but was wrong. Not alive, just magic. Felt self falling into torpor. Before sleep, saw people coming. Long white coats. Strange objects in hands. Then emptiness. _(Transcriber's note: They were artificers from the Althorian Enclave using unknown magical devices to subdue Timaeus.)_

Should have been end. When open eyes, stuck on table, could not move. Could not hear hive. 

Remember exact thoughts in head: "I make calm. No hive voice. I must dying now. Not die; must eliminate prey. No hive voice. I must die. I must. I. I. What is I?"

Had much panic when could not hear hive but also could not die. Was not right, could not make comprehend. Must have shown with body, researcher with glass bowl on head appeared in vision. Made word sounds, but I not have understand verbal communication yet. 

Many time pass at laboratory. Subjected to many experiment. Not go well until after they stop cage and manacles. Then treat me like person not animal. Researchers wanted learn why not dead. I offer teach them how die. Researchers not good learners, need many lesson.

Had learned to make mouth word sound. Limited, less vocabularly than small child, but I learning quick. Make trust from them, they give comfort things like bedding. I use bedding and food scraps, make rat. Use rat to make many rat. Infect rats to make brood larvas. Is like real brood, but not live long. Next researcher not know leaves with many brood.

Many time passed. Researchers stop coming. Hear click from door. I leave. Many dead everywhere. I escape.

```


a brood executioner _(a class of elite soldier drones)_ was captured by the researchers from the Althorian Enclave. While it is not known how exactly they accomplished this feat, they were able to bring Timaeus back to their laboratory, a distance great enough to severe the brood's connection to his hive mind.
#### Overview
#### Costuming and Makeup
#### Political / Social Structures
##### Brood Titles and Leadership/Authority Positiions
#### Brood Names
##### Hive Names / Surnames
##### Female Names
##### Male Names

#### Brood Abilities
#### Subtypes

### Dwarf [!toc-exclude-children-only]
#### Overview
#### Costuming and Makeup
#### Political / Social Structures
##### Dwarf Titles and Leadership/Authority Positiions
#### Dwarf Names
##### Clan Names / Surnames
##### Female Names
##### Male Names

#### Dwarf Abilities
#### Subtypes
##### Mountain Dwarf
##### Deep Dwarf

### Elf [!toc-exclude-children-only]
#### Subtypes
##### Dark Elf
##### High Elf
##### Moon Elf
##### Sun Elf
##### Wild Elf

### Glimmerling [!toc-exclude-children-only]
### Goblin [!toc-exclude-children-only]
### Halfling [!toc-exclude-children-only]
### Human [!toc-exclude-children-only]
### Iblis (Unforgiven) [!toc-exclude-children-only]
### Kindred [!toc-exclude-children-only]
### Kobold [!toc-exclude-children-only]
### Orc [!toc-exclude-children-only]
### Unbound [!toc-exclude-children-only]


 



