## Combat
Combat at Chronicles is enacted by physically contacting another player with either a weapon physrep or a packet. 

### Communication is Your Greatest Weapon
Communication between players is critical for combat going smoothly. It is important to speak clearly and enunciate your calls, and it is equally important to have patience with someone that asks you to repeat your call because they were unable to hear or understand it.  

If, at any time, you are unsure of what just happened in combat, ask your combat partner to repeat their call for you, or ask the people near to repeat what the calls were. If you do not know what a call means or how it affects you, simply state "I don't know what that does" or "What does that do?" Either to your opponent, to someone nearby, or to the marshal of the encounter. 

If in doubt in any situation, speak with the marshal for the encounter or a member of staff and tell them the situation. They are there to help you out!

### Delivering Weapon Blows
Attacking somebody with a weapon is, all together, pretty intuitive for most people. Just in case, though, here's how it works:

#### Melee Weapons
Every time you would like to deal damage to another character with a melee weapon, you must:
- Announce your [[Damage Call]] before or as you swing your weapon. 
- Pull the weapon back and swing it through an arc of at least 45 degrees prior to making contact with the target. _(you cannot simply "wipe" someone to death!)_
- Lightly tap the target with the padded striking surface of the weapon (See [[Phys Rep Construction]]).

#### Ranged Weapons
To make an attack with a bow or crossbow, the weapon phys rep must be held out in front you, as if you were preparing to fire a real archery bow. With the other hand, you must touch a packet to the bow or crossbow, then pull your hand back towards your ear as if you were drawing the string of a bow. Once you have done this, you may make your [[Damage Call]], then throw the packet at your target. 

#### Thrown Weapons
Thrown weapon follow all the same rules as packet-delivered abilities. Additionally, they may never be used as a melee weapon or to block a melee attack.

#### Valid Boffer Strikes
In order for a weapon blow to succeed, the physrep must strike the target's body on a valid striking location. If the striking weapon physrep contacts a wielded weapon or shield *in any way* prior to contacting the target's body, the strike is considered to be blocked. "Powering through" a player's blocking weapon or shield is not a valid strike

The head, throat, spine, and groin region are ***never*** valid strike locations. Additionally, when wielding a weapon the character has the skill to use, that player's hands become invalid striking locations. Thus, if a player attempts to block a weapon blow with their own held weapon, and the blow strikes the hand wielding the weapon, the strike is considered to be successfully blocked.

Any player that repeatedly, flagrantly, or intentionally violates the rules of safe combat will face disciplinary action.

#### Speed of Combat
Every attack with a weapon must be accompanied by a discrete damage call. A player may not attack faster than they are able to make their damage calls, or once per second, whichever is slower. _(Accommodations may be made for anyone who may struggle with damage calls because of a physical limitation, speech impediment, or any other concern by speaking with the staff at an event.)_

#### Light Touch Combat
When striking with a weapon, light contact is all that is required to land a successful attack. Strikes should feel like playing a game of tag, not a game of football. Swinging for the fences is unnecessary and disallowed, the focus should be on "tapping" the target.

### Safety
**The safety of players at Chronicles is paramount.** 
Chronicles enforces a Light Touch boffer combat system. While Chronicles is explicitly inclusive of players with widely varying physical capabilities, and the combat is intended to be accessible to everyone, it is still an inherently physical activity. 

#### Non-Combatant Players
Players that would like to abstain from boffer combat may indicate their "No Combat" status by wearing an orange headband, and must be avoided in boffer combat. No Combat players are still affected by game effects, and their characters may be killed by announcing "I slay you" while within melee striking range of the target.

#### Hold!
The word "Hold" as a very specific use at Chronicles: **It immediately and unquestioningly halts play**.

It is important that you do not move your feet when this happens. Anyone can call a hold. Players, unless they are no longer able to call hold, should only call holds for themselves. When they are fit to do so, they will be the one to resume play by calling "Lay On!" as described above.

When this happens you need to pay attention to what is going on around you. Stop all activity, movement, and be silent unless directed otherwise. Do not move, "step out of the way", or kneel down, because you never know when a hold was called because someone's glasses are in danger of being crushed.

Holds are used for a number of reasons: 
- Combat has become unsafe in some way
- A player is injured or has fallen in danger
- Staff needs to give a description to the players

 Avoid in-character/game interactions where you might use the word "hold", especially loudly. Desist, stop, and halt all convey similar meanings and won't cause an unintentional hold. 

#### Charging (aka the arms' length rule)
At no point during combat are players allowed to come within arms' reach of each other. All players involved in a combat are responsible for maintaining this distance. If a player can extend their arm and touch their opponent, then those players must halt their combat and separate, safely, before continuing play. If it is not possible for the two players to create enough distance from each other due to terrain or other considerations, then they must call a Hold to resolve the situation, such as by relocating to an area with enough space to proceed safely.

#### Turtling
Turtling is the act of occluding all valid strike zones, while in melee combat, from an opponent through the use of a shield or the combined use of a shield and other objects. This includes hunkering down completely behind a shield, or standing across a table from an opponent and shielding your top half. An opponent must always have at least one option to strike you without engaging in unsafe behavior. 

#### Blind Striking
In order to attack a target with a boffer, the player must be able to see their target. "Blind striking" around corners, doorways, or other obstructions through which the target cannot be seen is explicitly disallowed.

#### Trapping
A player may never use any device that entraps or immobilizes an opponent's physrep. This includes pinning an opponent's weapon against the ground or other object, catching an opponents by hand, entrapping an opponent's weapon using fabric or rope, closing an opponent's weapon in a door,  or using devices such as a catching dagger.

### Packet-Delivered Abilities
Casting a spell, firing a ranged weapon, and using packet-delivered abilities all require hitting a target with a [[Packet]].

To cast a spell or use a packet-delivered ability, the player must:
- Hold a packet in a free hand
- Speak the spell incant or ability verbal
- Throw the packet at the intended target

#### Disrupted Spells
If the player's spell incant or throw is disrupted, the resources used to cast the spell or ability are lost as though it were successfully cast. Taking damage does not necessarily interrupt casting, however, any effect or state that would prevent spellcasting (such as Stun, Silence, or dying) interrupts the casting of a spell.

#### Touch Casting
Touch casting involves holding a packet, and, while within arm's length of another player, speaking the incant or verbal and touching the player on the shoulder with the packet. It is entirely acceptable for a player to decline touch contact, in which case, the caster should still be within arm's reach of the target and simply gesture as if they were going to touch the target's shoulder with the packet.

The intention of touch casting is to facilitate the casting of spells that you would be reasonably certain your target would perceive as beneficial, without having to throw and retrieve a spell packet. The target of a touch cast may refuse the effect by stating "Refused" after the caster casts the spell. It is as if the caster hit the target with a packet, but the target was unaffected by the spell; The resource cost of the spell or ability is still expended and may not be recovered via [[Meditate]].

To refuse a touch cast, the target must be conscious and capable of moving their arms and/or legs. In other words, refusing a touch cast is basically your character moving or slapping the caster's hand away. In a situation where the target is capable of refusing the touch cast, and fails to acknowledge to the caster that the spell was taken, it can be assumed that the target refused the touch cast.

Touch casting may **never** be used with hostile intent during combat against a target that is not otherwise incapacitated. Doing so is unsafe, and would violate the [[Charging]] rules. Example situations where touch casting is disallowed:
- Casting a spell on an enemy you or your allies are currently fighting against
- Attempting to cast a Rift Lock or other spell on a target currently Rifting in or out
- Casting a spell on a target that is dragging your friend away

### Spell Strikes
Spell Strike, Physical Strike, Toxin Strike, and Aether Strike are all spells or spell-like abilities delivered with melee phys reps. Instead of using the weapon for a standard weapon blow, the character announces the ability verbal then swings with their weapon phys rep. Striked abilities differ from Weapon Blows in a number of ways:
- The weapon strike does not need to contact the target's body. Like spell packets, the strike need only contact the target's body or a possession of the target (ex: hitting your target's cloak without contacting their body is a valid strike).
- The ability is consumed immediately, and is only good for a single swing; if the player misses their target entirely, the ability is still expended.
- Striked abilities are not blocked by shields or weapons. A strike that contacts the targets shield or weapons is a successful hit.

### Blocking Weapons and Abilities
Weapon blows may be blocked with a wielded shield or weapon, so long as the character has the skill to use to it when they attempt to block. Blocking without having the relevant skill or while skilless (ie, while [[Stunned]]) results in the player taking the hit as though they had not blocked it at all.

Spells and abilities (anything delivered as Physical, Magic, Toxin, Aether, and their Strike equivalents) successfully lands on the target if the packet or weapon phys rep makes contact with any part of the target's body, clothing, held items, or possessions.
