# Roleplaying the Game
Roleplay operates on a collective agreement:  when you are In Game (IG), the fiction is real, and we treat it as such. This means that everything you say or do is treated as In Character (IC) and attributed to the character you are portraying. When you are Out of Game (OOG), you step outside of that fiction. The character pauses, the real you is present, and everything you do is considered Out of Character (OOC). While that can initially seem complicated, the distinction exists to protect the game from the real world and vice versa.

## Social Interaction

### How to interact with plot

## The World
Chronicles is a sword & sorcery fantasy game set in a pre-industrial world called Evren. Our chapter primarily centers around the port town of Varos within the Kingdom of the Terran Valley. A weekend event is referred to as a market fair, during which adventurers from all over this world typically meet in Varos. In Evren, adventurers may be regarded as <i>different</i> from the normal folk in the world.   

Chronicles science, medicine, and technology is roughly equivalent to 14th century Earth.  For roleplay, players are encouraged to act, speak, and behave as if they exist in that time frame.  We do of course allow players to use modern medicine but if possible, it should be done away from a large crowd to promote the in game atmosphere.

### No Religions
We strive to be inclusive and respectful at Chronicles and do not want anyone to be in the situation of giving offense to others. The use of any real world religious symbols or iconography in the game, including costuming, garb, or props, is explicitly disallowed. Similarly, in roleplay, it is unacceptable to use invocations of distinctly recognizable figures or beings of real world religious or spiritual importance. If you're uncertain at all about if something may be problematic, make sure to speak with the head of plot first.

### Politics
In game politics are part of life. Whether a character wishes to serve a king loyally, ignore his command, or attempt a rebellion is up to them! Just know that there may be in game consequences for a character's actions.  OOG political symbols, slogans, and iconography are explicitly disallowed.

### Necromancy
Evren as a whole does not view necromancy as an inherently evil or bad thing, though most people find it at least distasteful. There are laws against it in nearly all kingdoms, and for those where it is not, there are guilds that regulate and oversee its use.

### Wizards' Guild of Varos
The Wizards' Guild, sometimes referred to as the mage's guild, is located in Varos.  Joining the guild costs 1 gold per year, payable to Logistics or the current Guildmaster.

Member Benefits
* Roleplay benefits such as titled positions, research requests, access to rare books and artifacts, or augmentation of a Knowledge Skill.
* Access to select limited use, special, or rare ritual scrolls and production recipes.

Benefits Available To Everyone
* Access to the Standard Library of Ritual Scrolls.
* May access a small library of books that grant Rank 10 Knowledge on specific topics such as cultures of the Khuurai Steppe or psychopomps of the northern lands.  Check with the Wizards' Guild for the most up-to-date listing!

### Crafters' Guild of Varos
The Crafters' Guild is a place where characters may rent fully equipped workshops, allowing them to begin their journey as a producer of goods.  This guild does not have any annual membership fees and provides the following benefits:
* Roleplay benefits such as titled positions, research requests, or augmentation of a Knowledge Skill.
* May purchase Anima Gems for 1 gold each.
* May rent the tools and space required for producing goods for 1 silver per item, up to 10 total items.
    * Crafting in excess of this limit requires a character to invest in their own space and tools.  A character may purchase their own workshop for 1 year at the cost of 5 gold, payable to Logistics.  Character workshops may only be used by the character that purchased it.

## Preparing for an Event

### Costuming

### Makeup