# Combat
Combat at Chronicles is enacted by physically contacting another player with either a weapon physrep or a packet. 

## Communication is Your Greatest Weapon
Communication between players is critical for combat going smoothly. It is important to speak clearly and enunciate your calls, and it is equally important to have patience with someone that asks you to repeat your call because they were unable to hear or understand it.  

If, at any time, you are unsure of what just happened in combat, ask your combat partner to repeat their call for you, or ask the people near to repeat what the calls were. If you do not know what a call means or how it affects you, simply state "I don't know what that does" or "What does that do?" Either to your opponent, to someone nearby, or to the marshal of the encounter. 

If in doubt in any situation, speak with the marshal for the encounter or a member of staff and tell them the situation. They are there to help you out!

## Safety
**The safety of players at Chronicles is paramount.** 
Chronicles enforces a Light Touch boffer combat system. While Chronicles is explicitly inclusive of players with widely varying physical capabilities, and the combat is intended to be accessible to everyone, it is still an inherently physical activity. Players that would like to abstain from boffer combat may indicate their "No Combat" status by wearing an orange headband, and must be avoided in boffer combat. No Combat players are still affected by game effects, and their characters may be killed by announcing "I slay you" while within melee striking range of the target.

## Valid Boffer Strikes
In order for a weapon blow to succeed, the physrep must strike the target's body on a valid striking location. If the striking weapon physrep contacts a wielded weapon or shield *in any way* prior to contacting the target's body, the strike is considered to be blocked. "Powering through" a player's blocking weapon or shield is not a valid strike, and doing so intentionally or repeatedly will result in disciplinary action.

The head, throat, spine, and groin are ***never*** valid strike locations, and any player repeatedly striking targets in such locations may face disciplinary action. 

Additionally, when wielding a weapon the character has the skill to use, that player's hands become invalid striking locations. Thus, if a player attempts to block a weapon blow with their own held weapon, and the blow strikes the hand wielding the weapon, the strike is considered to be successfully blocked.

In order to attack a target with a boffer, the player must be able to see their target. "Blind striking" around corners or doorways is explicitly disallowed.

## Light Touch Rule
When striking with a weapon, light contact is all that is required to land a successful attack. Strikes should feel like playing a game of tag, not a game of football. Swinging for the fences is unnecessary and disallowed, the focus should be on "tapping" the target.

## Charging (aka the arms' length rule)
At no point during combat are players allowed to come within arms' reach of each other. All players involved in a combat are responsible for maintaining this distance. If a player can extend their arm and touch their opponent, then those players must halt their combat and separate, safely, before continuing play. If it is not possible for the two players to create enough distance from each other due to terrain or other considerations, then they must call a Hold to resolve the situation, such as by relocating to an area with enough space to proceed safely.

## Speed of Combat
Every attack with a weapon must be accompanied by a discrete damage call. A player may not attack faster than they are able to make their damage calls, or once per second, whichever is slower. _(Accommodations may be made for anyone who may struggle with damage calls because of a disability or speech impediment by speaking with the staff at an event.)_

## Turtling
Turtling is the act of occluding all valid strike zones, while in melee combat, from an opponent through the use of a shield or the combined use of a shield and other objects. This includes hunkering down completely behind a shield, or standing across a table from an opponent and shielding your top half. An opponent must always have at least one option to strike you without engaging in unsafe behavior. 

## Trapping
A player may never use any device that entraps or immobilizes an opponent's physrep. This includes pinning an opponent's weapon against the ground or other object, catching an opponents by hand, entrapping an opponent's weapon using fabric or rope, closing an opponent's weapon in a door,  or using devices such as a catching dagger.

# Casting Spells
Casting a spell is an act of will and physical effort combined, gathering the energy that the caster has prepared in their memory and then throwing it out into the world. In LARP Chronicles, a spell's energy is represented by a "spell packet", a small bundle of cloth, usually filled with bird seed, that is thrown at, or touched against other participants, in order to use magic.

When casting a spell, first a player must have a spell packet in a free hand. Then, they cast the spell by speaking the entire incant or verbal (as specified by each spell), then throwing the packet, swinging their weapon (in the case of spellstrikes), or touching the packet to their target (in the case of touch casting). If the spell packet or weapon strikes a target successfully, they are affected as per the spell's description, unless they are capable of resisting the magic.

A spell or magic ability delivered via packet or spellstrike successfully lands on the target if the packet or weapon phys rep makes contact with any part of the target's body, clothing, held items, or possessions.

A "Free Hand" in this instance means that the hand holding the spell packet may not be holding any other items. I.E., no swords, shields, potions, sticks, bedrolls, snack cakes, and such. A player may hold multiple spell packets in the same hand and still cast.

If a caster's spell incant or throw is disrupted, the mana points (or ability) used to cast the spell are lost the same as though it were successfully cast. Taking damage does not interrupt a cast, however, effects that would prevent spellcasting (such as stun, or being dead) can interrupt the casting of a spell.

If a player accidentally or mistakenly fails to correctly incant a spell or ability, the spell or ability does not work. The mana points or ability used to cast the spell are not expended, and the caster simply has to start over with casting the spell. This is a "good faith" policy, and intentional abuse of this policy may be met with disciplinary action as per the Chronicles Code of Conduct.

Some spells require a "X count" to cast where X may be three or five. This is always intended to be X number of seconds.