# Character Races
## Who can play which races?
The 12 standard races in this rulebook may be played by anyone, regardless of real life age, gender, height, body type, skin color, or any other attribute, really.

A character is always the size as the person that character _(with some exceptions specifically for NPCs. See [NPCs])._ Consequentially, the playable races do not have set body types: Dwarves are not, on average, shorter than humans. Elves are not taller, Orcs are not necessarily more broad; they are exactly as tall or broad as the people playing them.

## Portraying Your Character's Race
Aside from Humans, each race has specific makeup, prosthetic, or costuming requirements. Chronicles endeavors to be as inclusive as possible; **If there is a race you are interested in playing, but are unable to properly conform to those requirements _(such as a makeup allergy)_, reach out to your local plot team. They will happily work with you to accommodate individual circumstances.**

> Note: The race of your character is always immediately visible and obvious to any other character that sees you. There are magical effects that can alter the race your character appears to be, but absent being under one of those effects, any person that perceives you _(ie, asks you the OOG question "What do I see?" or "What race are you?")_ is able to know your characters race, even if you have attempted to physically obfuscate your race's distinctive physical features.

## Roleplaying a Race
Individual members of a race may have a tendency towards certain personality traits and behaviors. While these are not hard-and-fast rules, the vast majority of individuals will exhibit these traits. It is highly recommended that players incorporate, in some way, the traits appropriate to the race they are playing. 

> Note: While it is _possible_ to be an Orc librarian, or a Flame Unbound that loves swimming, it can be quite difficult to portray it in such a way that it does not break the immersiveness of the game for other players. 

## Race vs Culture
In Chronicles, "Race" is synonymous with "Species."

Individuals of each race will share many characteristics, but the culture from which an individual hails typically has a much greater impact on a character's beliefs and values. Elves are frequently stereotyped to be elitist and arrogant, and while this is certainly true of most of the High Elf kingdoms, the Sun Elves of the archipelago are notoriously egalitarian.

## Half Races
For the purposes of game mechanics, a character is considered to have only one race. While it is possible to play a character that identifies themselves as a "half-elf", the player must make the choice to use the rules and mechanics for either elf or human. This means that the character will have access to only one race's racial abilities, and must provide the race listed on their character sheet when asked the OOG question "What do I see?". The player is free to incorporate the culture of either, both, or neither of those races as they like.

## Races
### Brood
The brood are a race of insect-like humanoids who have only recently found personhood and individually. Like ants and bees, they were a eusocial organism where each individual was merely a drone, with limited personality and autonomy. They could communicate telepathically with other members of their hive, forming a collective consciousness known as the Hive Mind. 

Within the past few decades emerged autonomous brood, independent individuals that are not dependent upon the hive mind to survive. In fact, they have at best limited connection to their hive's collective consciousness. Their hives have transformed from eusocial colonies to thriving towns and cities as individualism takes hold. 

Like all intelligent peoples, there are brood merchants, sailors, soldiers, and all other manner of professions, but the vast majority are farmers and ranchers. Brood society is starkly egalitarian. With so many of them remembering life in the hive mind, there is a societally ingrained tendency towards efficiency. Brood lack familiar family structures, instead tending to view their entire hive as an extended family.  

It is easy for an outsider to the hive to believe the commonly-held misunderstanding that brood do not possess empathy. Being such a young society, and so recently in their history truly lacking any concept of morality, brood as a people tend to come at the idea of ethics from the side.

While the hive mind does not possess empathy in a form we would recognize 

#### Feral Brood
Known as "Feral Brood", these pre-individualistic brood hives resembled ant colonies. The single queen of the hive laid eggs which would hatch into brood of various different phenotypes, such as worker drones, scouts, soldiers, and elite executioners, depending on the needs of the hive as a whole.

Feral brood are incredibly difficult to capture alive. Should a feral brood become restrained or incapacitated, or disconnected from their hive mind for more than a short period of time , it will immediately discorporate. With feral hives being insular and aggressive with regards to anything that is not part of their hive, studying them proves to be quite problematic.


```**From _The Accounts of Lord Timaeus_**

Sometime around the year 5220, I became aware of myself. Difficult to articulate memories from when before a person. Not right mind. But remember becoming a person, becoming own mind. 

I was executioner; I was elite soldier. Was hunting enemy brood far from hive when happened. Caught some, but was wrong. Not alive, just magic. Felt self falling into torpor. Before sleep, saw people coming. Long white coats. Strange objects in hands. Then emptiness. _(Transcriber's note: They were artificers from the Althorian Enclave using unknown magical devices to subdue Timaeus.)_

Should have been end. When open eyes, stuck on table, could not move. Could not hear hive. 

Remember exact thoughts in head: "I make calm. No hive voice. I must dying now. Not die; must eliminate prey. No hive voice. I must die. I must. I. I. What is I?"

Had much panic when could not hear hive but also could not die. Was not right, could not make comprehend. Must have shown with body, researcher with glass bowl on head appeared in vision. Made word sounds, but I not have understand verbal communication yet. 

Many time pass at laboratory. Subjected to many experiment. Not go well until after they stop cage and manacles. Then treat me like person not animal. Researchers wanted learn why not dead. I offer teach them how die. Researchers not good learners, need many lesson.

Had learned to make mouth word sound. Limited, less vocabularly than small child, but I learning quick. Make trust from them, they give comfort things like bedding. I use bedding and food scraps, make rat. Use rat to make many rat. Infect rats to make brood larvas. Is like real brood, but not live long. Next researcher not know leaves with many brood.

Many time passed. Researchers stop coming. Hear click from door. I leave. Many dead everywhere. I escape.

```


### Dwarf
#### Overview
Dwarves are a race of sturdy, industrious, bearded folk who find themselves at their most comfortable, collectively, deep beneath the land. If that land has a decent-sized mountain above it, then all the better.

Dwarves identify most strongly with their kingdom, then their clan, then their family. Even when they have left their kingdoms by choice or by need, they are fiercely loyal to whomever they come to consider to be "their people". It is rare to find a Dwarf who does not hold the idea of the Rule of Law amongst their highest ideals, and those that don't are almost never to be found in a Dwarf city.
- They treat the idea of Laws as almost sacred things. Nearly every major kingdom of dwarves shares the same code of law, the Agrimarian Code, laid down in its original form by King Agrimar. Despite dwarves breaking the law at about the same rate as a member of any other race, finding a dwarf that does hold the idea of Law as supremely virtuous is rare.
- Beards
- Not necessarily short
- Tend towards engineering and craftsmanship, and away from "liberal arts"
    - Not that there are no good dwarf artists, especially when it comes to sculpture.
    - Dwarf musicianship, however... some people find it difficult to hear the musical qualities of dwarf "music"


### Dwarf
#### Overview
 

The Dwarven people of Evren are a sturdy race of people who hail from the mountainous regions.  Rarely given toward verbosity or activities they believe are unrefined and requiring improvement, Dwarves have received a reputation of being brusque and hypercritical.

This race once ruled a wide part of Evren with many villages filled with fantastic creations of ingenuity and inspired design.  Over half a millenia ago, when the Iblis invaded Evren, the Dwarven people suffered greatly, and lost control over much of their territories and their bastion of knowledge.  In the counter-attacks that ultimately pushed the Iblis back, the Dwarves were indispensable for their crafters.  Now, generations later, none truly remember the losses of their ancestors, and have long since turned their focus back toward building a vast mining empire and achieving ever greater levels of craftsmanship.
#### Costuming and Makeup
Both male and female Dwarves appear with beards.
#### Political / Social Structures
##### Dwarf Titles and Leadership/Authority Positions
#### Dwarf Names
##### Clan Names / Surnames
##### Female Names
##### Male Names

#### Dwarf Abilities
*Body of Stone*: _Hardy and strong, Dwarves have a natural ability to overcome certain effects._ Once per rest, a Dwarf may MINIMIZE a single 20 second Physical effect with a 3 second count by incanting, "Minimize Physical."

*Tricks of the Trade*: _Dwarves are masters of all things crafting, and as such have learned how to cut the occasional corner._ Once per day, a Dwarf may add 1 additional Durability to an item that is being created by themselves or another crafter.
#### Subtypes
##### Mountain Dwarf
##### Deep Dwarf

### Elf

#### Elf Abilities
*Will of Ages*: _Their long lives and vibrant life force makes them particularly resistant to negative spell effects._ Once per rest, an Elf may reduce a Spell Effect upon themselves to three seconds by incanting, "Minimize Spell"

*Ritual Expertise*: _The longevity of the Elves means that they often are able to find improvements in otherwise flawed Rituals_. Once per day, an Elf may reduce the Spirit Gem cost of a single ritual, to a minimum of one Spirit Gem. A single Ritual may not benefit from this ability more than once.

#### Subtypes
##### Dark Elf
The Dark Elven people primarily live deep below the surface of Evren.  Built within expansive networks of subterranean tunnels and caverns, their cities are elaborate and intricate wonders constructed long ago with a unique material that gives their constructions a glossy appearance like polished obsidian, but is much less brittle.

The Dark Elves themselves are known to be a bit xenophobic or isolationist, depending on the viewpoint. Socially, they are organized into matriarchal Houses.  Within their culture, the House you are born to or employed by is typically an indicator of overall status, as some are much more affluent  and influencing than others.

A Dark Elf with no such House affiliation is akin to an unknown.  In more polite circles, the avoidance of interaction is reasoned as not knowing how to properly address or interact with the Houseless individual, Elf or not.  More commonly, anyone lacking a House affiliation is generally seen as a non-citizen and thought to be a creature of no consequence with little to no importance and not worth direct attention.

###### Costuming and Makeup
Dark Elves appear with pointed ears and complexions ranging from white to pale.  They can sometimes be recognized by red markings around their eyes.

If a paler complexion is desired, it is recommended to use a lighter makeup foundation rather than to rely on white paint.  For the red eye markings, how they are added is player discretion and may be as simple as smudges, red eyeliner, lines, red eyeshadow, or no red markings at all.

##### High Elf
High Elves are one of the most common Elves found in Evren.  Being more abundant across Evren, it should come as no surprise that these Elves frequently break down into regional or political groups such as Elves in the Red Desert often being referred to as "Desert Elves."

The High Elves are typically perceived by others to be snobbish or elitist.  The reality of this is that they probably are.  Most, if accused of being elitist, would more than likely assert this as truth, as to deny it, in their views, would be akin to the delusion that High Elves are not superior to other Elves that, while Elf-shaped, are far too primitive and barbaric.

###### Costuming and Makeup
High Elves appear with pointed ears and complexions ranging from fair to ebony.

##### Moon Elf
The majority of Moon Elves call Southwood home and live in a sprawling city where many buildings seem to have been grown from only silver and moonstone.

A widely held belief among the Moon Elves explains their practice of staining their skin silver: The Great Mother and Great Father formed the Elven race long ago, and in the birth of their race, the Mother's form exploded, becoming the stars in the night sky.  Forlorn without her, the Father transformed himself into the moon and joined her in the sky, but found he could not gaze upon only his beloved.

The Father turned his face upon Evren, providing a guiding light for their children at night and casting a pale, watchful face over them in the daytime. Each month, he will slowly turn away and face only the Mother to share a private moment away from the eyes of their children.

During this time of darkness, the sap of the central tree within their city turns silver.  It has become the practice of these Elves, each month, to mark the skin of their infants during their first new moon.  Many Elves continue to mark and stain their skin with the sap throughout their life, to mark everything from a coming of age to achieving spiritual growth.  The time of a new moon is a sacred time to the Moon Elves, as they believe it is the only time the Father and the Mother may create life again.

Their temperaments are varied, though most present themselves as stoic individuals with a quiet seriousness.  This behavior can sometimes appear as an attitude of aloofness or reserve.  The illusion is typically broken by the presence of someone the Moon Elf knows, prompting them toward displaying sudden warmth and openness.

###### Costuming and Makeup
Moon Elves appear with pointed ears and complexions ranging from white to pale.  They are typically recognized due to staining their skin with silver-colored dye.

Silver markings are largely up to the player.  Some examples of this may be flecks, lines, or the only visible color of the complexion.

##### Sun Elf
The Sun Elves can primarily be found throughout the many islands of the archipelago.  Traveling from island to island, these Elves have become experts at navigation and utilize a unique mapping technique to map ocean swells with esoteric creations of sticks. shells, and twine.  Equipped with these stick maps, the knowledge to read them, and their massive catamarans, the Sun Elves live a transient, seafaring life.

The golden complexion of Sun Elves began long ago with a misguided belief that a particular gold mica laden cream would protect their skin from the harshness of the sun – a necessity for a people frequently under it.  Living mostly in small communities that frequently intermix, it is no surprise that the use of gold mica laden creams has become ubiquitous.  Today, the Sun Elves continue the practice of staining their skin as part of their naming ceremony as infants or any various coming of age tradition.

###### Costuming and Makeup
Sun Elves appear with pointed ears and complexions ranging from tan to a rich golden color.  They are often recognized by a golden sheen resulting from staining.

Achieving the golden complexion of a Sun Elf can typically be done with Mehron products.  It is not suggested to apply glitter due to the possibility of it getting in the eyes.

##### Wild Elf
Many of the Wild Elves – so named by the High Elves – make their homes either in Elven kingdoms or in the treetops of many Evren forests.  Regarded as masters of these untamed areas, they will frequently be referred to as rangers and are considered to be rather sneaky and elusive.  Equally, these Elves are frequently thought of as unnerving to face in a fight due to their use of ululating war cries.

The Wild Elves consider themselves to simply be better than others at living with nature and understanding its patterns rather than foolishly attempting to change nature to suit their own needs.  Even their homes, built upon platforms that sprawl from one tree to another, utilize the natural branching and existing foliage of the trees to support and camouflage their presence.

Socially, these Elves are broken down into various regional Groves, led by an elected council of five referred to as the Root.  Like the roots of a tree, the Root is responsible for supporting the Grove from the bottom up.  In an effort to maintain balance, each council member of the Root shares an equal say, which can sometimes result in changes as rapidly shifting as the weather or with a steady dependability.

###### Costuming and Makeup
Wild Elves appear with pointed ears and complexions from fair to ebony.  They are often recognized by visible markings or tattoos.

Markings and tattoos can be done in any style desired by the player and in any color.

### Glimmerling
#### Overview
Old wives tales will claim the Glimmerling people are the result of Humans having intermingled with the Fae of ancient legend.  Just as those stories contain many different descriptions, so too are the Glimmerlings wildly diverse in appearance and temperament.

Most people view the Glimmerlings with no difference to how they view the fairies of folktales, which is to say, there is very little open trust granted and more than a little suspicion.  This is of course aided by the tendency of many Glimmerlings to be merciless, mischievous tricksters – though in their opinion, they are simply having some fun and don't all people like fun?

#### Costuming and Makeup
Glimmerlings appear with a variety of complexions.  They are sometimes recognized by horns, antennae, wings, pointed ears, large noses, additional eyes, tails, etc.  Physical representations of any unique characteristics should be done.

#### Glimmerling Abilities
*Remembrance*: _Being connected to the realm of dreams, Glimmerlings are able to delve into the memories of another person._ Once per rest, a Glimmerling may concentrate and establish a connection to a consenting character and aid them in recovering memories for as long as the other chooses to keep the contact.  This is a purely roleplayed ability and may not be used to determine truth.  If attempting to use this ability to recall specific plot information, seek a plot member beforehand, so they can be on hand to describe what is witnessed.

*Trickster*: _Glimmerlings as a race, are very cunning and crafty and delight in causing the occasional confusion and chaos._ Once per day, a Glimmerling may recall to a pre-designated location ala the same rules as Rune of Recall and call, "Activate Recall, 1 I recall, 2 I recall, 3 I recall."  They must drop any items acquired prior to vanishing.

### Goblin
#### Overview
Hailing from nearly all reaches of Evren, Goblins are descendants of a race once imbued with magic and connected to a protective and empowering being their shamans refer to as the All-Father.  While each tale will likely vary as to why they are no longer linked to any such creature, Goblins today do not look at this as some kind of loss, but rather that they are much stronger without the fetters of dependency.

Resourceful and clever, if not traditionally wise, Goblins are unreservedly proud of their achievements.  The scale or scope of the achievement rarely factors in, so long as, to their perception, something was completed in a way that brought them satisfaction.  Sharing such gratification with others, or worse, being forced to credit another for their accomplishment is not only demoralizing, but often treated as an affront and impugnment of their person.

In ages long since past, Goblins were subjugated and enslaved by Orcs on the heels of the Orcs themselves having gained their own freedom.  This lasted for about as long as it took Goblins to outsmart the Orcs, which is to say, not very long.  Still, a bitterness toward Orc-kind remains today in many Goblin communities.

#### Costuming and Makeup
Goblins appear with green complexions, pointed ears, and long, pointed noses that may have large warts.
Achieving pointed ears that slope back or downward can be done by wearing Elf ears backwards.

#### Goblin Abilities
*Improvised Equipment*: _Exceptionally enterprising in a pinch, Goblins are innovative and quick-thinking individuals that are undaunted by a "broken" piece of equipment._  Once per rest, a Goblin may use a weapon, shield, or piece of armor that is broken until their next rest.  After this use, the item crumbles and may not be repaired or salvaged.

*Run Away*: _Being so incredibly clever sometimes has its pitfalls, and the sudden need to "get out of dodge" is a unique skill all Goblins seem to develop._  Once per day, a Goblin may elect to flee an encounter by yelling, "RUN AWAY!"  For 10 seconds, this Goblin may Dodge an unlimited number of times, but must be physically fleeing.

### Halfling
#### Overview
Typically rather practical, Halflings are community-oriented people that relish a good challenge or being presented with a new task to bend their considerable, natural intellect toward.  They are often viewed as rather industrious due to their advances in homestead technologies and it is not uncommon for a Halfling to be seen working on a city planning council or to be sought out as a consultant for a variety of tasks.

Most often, Halflings make their homes in multi-race towns and villages, though all-Halfling communities certainly exist and are likely one of the most functional, well-run places it is possible to encounter.

The values held by the majority of Halflings are the home, the belly, and the mind – in that order, of course.  Without a home, there is not a place in which to feed the belly.  If you cannot feed the belly, then you cannot aptly use the mind.

#### Costuming and Makeup
Halflings have complexions that may range from fair to ebony, slightly pointed ears, and are often recognized by hair feet, hairy forearms, and long sideburns.
Sideburns and excess hair can appear on all Halflings and should be physically represented in some visible manner on both male and female Halflings.

#### Halfling Abilities
*Make Myself At Home:* _Halflings are exceptionally light-fingered, and have little concept for such mundane things as "personal space."_ Once per rest, a Halfling may spend 60 seconds of Roleplay to pick a single lock of any difficulty.

*Community Outreach*: _All Halflings have a strong sense of community, and may use that connection to provide protection to their friends and loved ones._ Once per Day, a Halfling may spend a minute of roleplay telling stories, singing a song, or sharing a meal, to deliver a single, "Voice Radius Magic Barrier" of a type of their choosing.

### Human
#### Overview
Humans have been around Evren for as long as anyone can remember, and though their lifespan is not as lengthy as some races, they nevertheless make up for in the structures they establish, leave behind, reclaim, and rebuild.  They are a fairly common sight in nearly every region, as at some point, their natural inclination toward wanderlust will take over some individuals who strike out and begin yet another community somewhere new.

From their own perspectives, Humans are tenacious, steadfast, full of determination, and always striving toward greatness – though the exact definition of what greatness is will always vary.  Building villages into towns and cities, then establishing laws and governing entities are the main strengths of Humans and in their expert opinion, are things they do for the betterment of all races and helps establish fairness.

Outside opinions of Humans are perhaps not as gilded, as many other races would describe Humans as greedy, controlling creatures that wander about, declaring any open plot of ground their new property.  Expecting all others to follow any laws and regulations they set forth, and having the amazing gall to refer to themselves as the "normal-looking ones."  Not all opinions of Humans boil down to this perspective, of course.  There are plenty of people that happily coexist within Human towns that have become melting pots of mixed cultures and races.

#### Costuming and Makeup
Humans may appear with complexions ranging from pale to ebony and may have varied markings or identifiers based on their region or culture.

#### Human Abilities
*Survivor*: _Humans are incredibly adaptable and able to survive when most others would not._ Once per rest, a Human may have a free usage of Endurance by spending 1 minute of concentration to prime the ability. While primed, if the character reaches 59 seconds of their Dying count, this ability triggers to return the target to 1 Body instead of becoming Dead, and the character must declare, "Endurance". This is an ENDURE effect. An individual cannot have more than one primed ENDURE effect at once.

### Iblis (Unforgiven)
#### Overview
Over half a millennium ago, during the Godslayer Wars, the Iblis people opened an inter-planar gate from their home to Evren, through which they staged an invasion of what is now known as the Khuurai Steppe and the region north of Lac Gronk.  Their appearance was more than enough to initially terrify most and for many years, they roamed the western lands, bringing battle to those that chose not to flee.

Their conquest was short-lived, however, as they lacked the organization to unite their territories in a lasting empire. Their relentless advance was eventually halted, then reversed as a series of brutal counter-attacks from their neighbors crippled the overextended invaders.  Too intensely pressured by the creatures they had initially thought of as little more than sport, the horned invaders fled back through their gate, hastily closing it.  Many of the Iblis were left stranded, forced to face the mercy of a world they had shattered.

Persecuted by the angry Evrens, the numbers of the unintentional refugees dwindled as more and more of them went into hiding and the Iblis became convinced of one thing:  they would never be forgiven by the people of Evren.  Generations passed and as the memories of these events faded into legend, so, too, did the stigma formerly attached to the name they had taken:  Unforgiven.

A rare sight today, the Unforgiven began appearing again and integrating themselves into other societies.  While some may be put off by their appearance and liken them to old stories of demons, they are generally accepted in mixed-race towns and cities.  In these scarce sightings, the Unforgiven will have typically become a distinguished individual of either exceptional skill or of singular intelligence and wit.

#### Costuming and Makeup
Unforgiven appear with a red complexion with smoky black shadowing, black horns that sprout from the skull or face, and a thin barbed tail.
Horn sizes and placements may vary at player discretion, but should be black or dark in color.  Some Unforgiven players choose to "hide" their barbed tail, but otherwise this should also be physically represented.

#### Iblis Abilities
*Call To Darkness*: Most Unforgiven today likely owe their very existence to their ancestors' cultivation of slipping away into their own shadow.  For some, this may seem like a trick of the eyes or that an Unforgiven has managed to hide away in plain sight; however, they remain very much visible, but for a short time, enjoy the safety the darkness grants them.  The aptitude for managing such a feat remains prevalent even into modern times.  Once per rest, an Unforgiven may spend 5 seconds in Concentration in order to slip into their own shadow and take the INVULNERABLE effect for 1 minute.  Within their own shadow, an Unforgiven is unable to move, communicate with others, nor use items or skills.  The Unforgiven is immune to all game effects, except SOLIDIFY and Dispel Magic.

*Harvest Essence*:  _Unforgiven have a stronger connection to the spiritual essence of other creatures than most, and use that connection to help them collect Spirit Gems._  Once per day, an Unforgiven may deliver a single, "Magic Entrap Spirit".


### Kindred
#### Overview
A fairly rare sight in Evren, the Kindred are the most diverse of the races in the sense that there are many different types, each appearing as an anthropomorphic form of another creature.  Being such wildly varied people, it should come as no surprise that their cultures, beliefs, appearances, and practices will all differ from one to another.  What the Kindred do share is the common trait of perseverance in the face of animosity.

#### Costuming and Makeup
Individuals appear with a variety of complexions, markings, and body parts.  They are recognized most commonly by appearing as a distinct humanoid-animal hybrid.
Facepaint and physical representations should be present and match the animal-type for the specific Kindred.

#### Kindred Abilities
*Increased Metabolism*: _Kindred's physiology is impressively streamlined, allowing them sometimes shake off Toxins that might often incapacitate them._ Once per rest a Kindred may reduce a 20 second Toxin Effect upon themselves to 3 seconds by incanting, "Minimize Toxin".

*Invoke Instinct*: _All Kindred possess a powerful connection to their primal pasts, and can invoke the prey instincts of a target._ Once per day, a Kindred may invoke the fear of the hunt in a target by incanting, "Aether Stop Thrust", preventing their target from advancing.
#### Subtypes

### Kobold
#### Overview
Kobolds can typically be found living in small, roving clans or in rustic, out of the way settlements. From the outsider's perspective, Kobolds and their communities are grossly lacking in laws and rife with theft.  This extends to the belief that the primary interests of every Kobold fall to impulsively gathering up anything interesting or shiny that isn't nailed down hard enough to keep them from making off with it and with the thing it is nailed to.  That is to say, most people believe that to Kobolds, there are only two properties of ownership:  "mine and things I don't care about."

Bright-eyed and precocious, Kobolds are among the shortest lived races, with all the chaotic cleverness and volubility it takes to get by.  When it comes to their supposed kleptomania, the majority of Kobolds will vehemently dispute any such accusation.

Kobolds typically respect the notions of ownership and possession, for anything they have an emotional attachment to is something they consider theirs and they would go to great lengths to keep it that way.  For everything else, a Kobold is likely to tell anyone that possession is entropic.

The worth most Kobolds place on things has very little to do with its intrinsic value or utility and everything to do with whether or not the object has captured their attention and or imagination. Uniquely held concepts such as this persist among most Kobolds, often presenting views and ideas about the world around them and how it works with a perceived naivety or ingenuousness.

#### Costuming and Makeup
Kobolds appear as reptilian humanoids with red or blue scaled complexions, black nostrils, blackened eye sockets, and an elongated, flattened snout akin to caiman or crocodiles.
The particular shade or hue of blue or red is up to the player.  The eye sockets should be blacked out up to the eyebrows and may extend to create angular shapes.  The nostrils should be black and come to small triangular tips just above the nostril.  Physical representations for horns and tails are encouraged.

#### Kobold Abilities
*MY SHINY*: _Kobolds are distinctly aware of the entropic nature of having things and so will closely guard things that are of great importance to them – or things that are important to them today._  Once per rest, a Kobold may declare one item on their person as protected, preventing the item from being taken from them, even in death.  This status lasts only until the start of their next rest, when they may declare another thing.  If the protected item is a container, only the container is protected, nothing inside of it.

*Ooo, Shiny*: _Kobolds are well-known for their impulsive nature of taking things they believe are interesting or needed._  Once per day, a Kobold may scrounge up a random item.  This must be done with Plot.


### Orc
#### Overview
Like the grassy streaks that never seem to quite wash out of that favorite pair of pants, a viridian stain of Orcish clans spread across the central lands of Evren.  Most of the other races steer clear of them, though it is not unheard of to find pockets of Goblins existing either among them or in villages situated somewhere an Orc claims as their territory.

The capital-D Dominance-based culture of these Orcs is more than just how their hierarchical society gets structured, it is a way of life that comes more naturally than breathing.  With this consideration, some other races may be confused at how Orc society has become matriarchal until one stops to consider that the needs and urges that feed into this culture are present within Orcs even as children, and who would they most likely challenge but their own caretakers?

The basis of this culture does not hinge much on codes of honor or only fighting "the right way."  To most Orcs, the way to establish Dominance is to do whatever it takes to still be standing and if that involves trickery and cunning, then that is exactly how they'll accomplish it.  After all, they learned all about the value of outsmarting their opponents from the Goblins they once subjugated.  But, Orcs do not exactly pride themselves on being smarter than their opponent, just being strong enough to make their opponent dumber by way of repeated blows to the head.

#### Costuming and Makeup
Orcs appear with green complexions and are recognized by their protruding lower teeth.
Protruding lower teeth should be physically represented in addition to a green complexion.
#### Abilities
*Rub Dirt In It*: _Orcs are strong and their beliefs are as strong, if not stronger.  In fact, an Orc's faith in their own toughness and ability allows them the firm certainty that cramming a wound full of dirt is a sure way to heal it – but only small wounds, and only sometimes._  Once per rest, an Orc may restore a dying character to 1 body.

*Last Stand*: _Like an Orc's faith in dirt's ability to heal, an Orc has an even truer faith in themselves to outlast even the limits of their bodies._  Once per day, an Orc may take their last stand and become immune to everything for 10 seconds.  After use, the Orc falls over dead and requires a Life/Revivify spell.

#### Political / Social Structures
While they do not typically serve as Chieftans, Orc women are the undisputed law among the Orcs.

#### Titles and Leadership/Authority Positions
#### Names
Gronkson.
##### Clan Names / Surnames

### Taitrel (Unbound)
#### Overview
When asked about their origins, most Unbound are unlikely to have an answer.  Those that do, will likely speak of an ancient tale about an event known as The Night of Madness.  Half a millennium ago, there existed a people called the Taitrel.  The Taitrel appeared quite similarly to Humans, yet with startlingly bright eyes in icy blues, fiery reds and oranges, stone greys, earthy browns, and electric yellows.

For the Taitrel people, The Night of Madness began with a chaotic wave of elemental force that washed across their lands, decimating their population and reducing their homes to rubble.  Those that survived this incident, found themselves to possess bodies with complexions in the very same colors they once attributed as simple eye colors.  Bright lines of power rippled across their newly colored forms line veins of pure, luminous, elemental power.  The Taitrel were no longer.  They had become something else – something more.  Something unbound.

Though scattered all about Evren, it did not take long for the refugees to find each other.  Faced with rampant xenophobia bred by the continent-spanning Godslayer Wars, the Unbound banded together and carved out small territories for themselves.  These small territories grew into factions, typically led by individuals with exceptional qualities that aligned with what is most valued by a particular faction.

The Unbound that may be found alone are typically those that have established themselves as civil-minded mediators and advisors among other races, despite their somewhat fearsome appearance.

#### Costuming and Makeup
Unbound appear with complexions of blue, red, orange, brown, or grey with bright streaks, lines, or cracks of glowing power.  These lines typically appear as white or as more luminous colors of their complexions.
To make glowing lines of power, it's suggested to use white paint and either line it with a thin black line or put a thin line of color through the middle of the white in order to create a colored line that appears to glow.  Facepaint aside from the glowing lines should match the elemental type of the character.  Ie:  Fire should be red or red-orange tones and hues, electricity should be grey, but may be blue, water should be blue, and stone should be earthy browns or rocky grey.

#### Unbound Abilities
*Elemental Blood*: _The Unbound can tap into their elemental nature to either spend their vitality to attack others or they may absorb the elemental energies from an incoming attack, and be healed by it._ Once per rest, Unbound may spend X number of body to use as a packet delivered spell ("Spell X*2 &lt;Element>").  Alternatively, they may instead receive healing from an incoming attack of the character's chosen element.("Appears to Heal Me").

*Elemental Transmutation*: _The Unbound are amalgamations of elemental forces and living beings. As such they are able to tap into the makeup of matter._ Once per day, an Unbound may transmogrify a single component of any rank into a different, single component of the same rank.

#### Subtypes
##### Flame
##### Frost
##### Storm
##### Earth

