# Creating a Character
The first milestone on your journey of becoming an adventurer is to describe a character of your own. Your character is first created in your imagination, and may be wholly original to you or inspired by other fictional characters or even non-fictional people, so long as it is sufficiently different to call your own! 

Broadly speaking, you will choose a race[races] (such as a human, elf, etc.) and your skillsets (which, if you are familiar with other RPG systems, is analogous to choosing a class), as well as define your character's costume, appearance, motivations, and personality.

At the end of this chapter, you will find a number of example characters to help get you started.

## Character Sheet
Your character sheet defines your character's statistics, skills, and abilities. It is a physical piece of paper, and you will receive a new copy of your character sheet each event you attend. Each player is required to keep their character sheet on their person at all times during game play _(ie, while In Game)._ Failure to present your character sheet to a marshal when requested may result in disciplinary action.

Throughout an event, a marshal may record information on your character sheet, such as deaths incurred or magic effects obtained. This information will be transferred to the Chronicles Character Database where you can view it online after the event concludes.

{{INSERT IMAGE OF CHARACTER SHEET HERE}}

{{INSERT EXPLANATION OF CHARACTER SHEET ELEMENTS}

## Step 1- Choosing a Race
Throughout the world, there are many races. Not every race is appropriate for a PC for a variety of reasons. They may be unfeasible to properly represent, or, more likely, have defining abilities that would cost too much SP for a new character to afford. _(It **is** possible for a character to be of a non-standard race! See the transformations[transformations] chapter.)_

## Step 2 - Choosing Skillsets and Skills
In Chronicles, character skills are grouped into 8 skillsets. Each character has a primary skillset and a secondary skillset, with the rest being tertiary. The cost of primary skillset skills is greatly reduced, while the cost of secondary skills are somewhat reduced. This means that a character's primary skillset represents the main focus of the character's abilities, and their secondary skillset reflects supporting or synergistic skills.

### Skillsets [!toc-exclude]
Below is a brief summary of each skillset:

**Fighter**: The Fighter skillset encompasses the ability to wield weapons, deal damage, and survive melee combat.  

**Rogue**: The Rogue skillset includes prowess at surprise attacks, archery, resourcefulness, and evasiveness. Rogue Primaries tend to be archers or melee combatants focused on sneak attacks. They have access to a number of utility skills that offer great flexibility, such as allowing them to disable foes, mimic abilities from other skillsets, and pick locks.  

**Arcane**: Arcane is a spellcasting skillset focused on damage dealing and utility spells. Arcane casters are the fireballing-throwing battlemages, with access to spells that also allow them to dispel magics.
  
**Nature**: The Nature skillset is a school of magic focused on disabling and incapacitating foes. With access to spells that allow them to stun enemies, disarm weapons, and force targets to keep their distance, Nature casters are the premier crowd control mages.
  
**Spirit**: The Spirit skillset is a school of magic comprised of spells that heal wounds and cleanse negative effects, as well as curse enemies with various afflictions.
   
**Thanatology**: Thanatology is an advanced skillset. Thaumaturges are generalist spellcasters that have access to fewer spells than other mages, but are able to replenish their mana without needing to rest. Thaumaturgy can only be used if it is a character's primary skillset, and precludes purchasing skills from the Arcane, Nature, and Spirit skillsets.
  
**Artisan**: The Artisan skillset is concerned with the harvesting of raw materials and the creation of equipment and consumable, single-use items.   

### Example Character Archetypes [!toc-exclude]
Here are some example skillset placements for various fantasy character tropes:
Physical / Martial Characters:

| Archetype | Primary | Secondary | Description                                                    |
| --------- | ------- | --------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Warrior   | Fighter | Rogue     | A master of melee combat                                       |
| Paladin   | Fighter | Spirit    | A melee fighter with healing spells                            |
| Ranger    | Fighter | Nature    | A ranged combatant with disabling magics                       |
| Assassin  | Rogue   | Fighter   | A sneak-attacking backstabber with some tricks up their sleeve |
| Thief     | Rogue   | Arcane    | A lockpicking, trap disarming, resourceful opportunist         |

Spellcasters:

| Archetype        | Primary     | Secondary |                                                     |
| ---------------- | ----------- | --------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| War Wizard       | Arcane      | Nature    | Mage focused on dealing damage and disabling foes   |
| Arcane Trickster | Arcane      | Rogue     | A flexible, resourceful utility mage                |
| Mage Knight      | Arcane      | Fighter   | A weapon-wielding, front line spellcaster           |
| Healer           | Spirit      | Nature    | A healer                                            |
| Druid            | Nature      | Spirit    | A crowd control mage with curses, heals, and fixits |
| Dread Knight     | Thaumaturge | Fighter   | A necromantic warrior                               |
