## Verbals
To affect another character mechanically, you must use a **Verbal**. A Verbal tells other players what game mechanic you are using and how it should be resolved. A verbal can take one of four forms: Ability Verbals, Incants, Damage Calls, and Defenses. 

Most effects in play follow this process:
1. Use a Skill, Ability, Spell, item, or other rule that allows you to act.
2. Deliver it using the appropriate **delivery method**.
3. Speak the appropriate **Verbal**.
4. If the delivery is successful, the target resolves the damage or effect.
5. The target may use a **Defense**, if they have one that applies.

#### Types of Verbals [!toc-exclude]
There are four main kinds of Verbals:
- **Damage Calls** are used to deliver weapon damage. They always begin with a number, such as `5 Normal` or `3 Magic Flame`.
- **Ability Verbals** are used to deliver Effects. They take the form `<Type> <Effect>`, such as `Physical Stun` or `Magic Sleep`.
- **Incants** are used to cast Spells. An Incant functions as the Spell’s verbal delivery.
- **Defenses** are used in response to negate or avoid an incoming Effect or attack.

### Damage Calls [!toc-exclude-children-only]
Directly dealing damage requires a weapon blow. There are three components to a damage call: 
- Damage Amount
- Damage Type
- Carrier (optional)

> [!EXAMPLE] Examples of damage calls:
> 5 Normal
> 3 Magic Flame
> 10 Poison Sleep

#### Damage Amount
Generally, this amount is calculated based on the number of relevant Weapon Proficiencies and Backstabs the character has (though it can be modified by some skills and abilities). It is the amount of damage that will be inflicted to target should the attack be successful. The Damage Amount may never be less than 0.  

#### Damage Type
There are 5 Damage Types:
- Normal
- Silver
- Poison
- Magic
- Aether

Some creatures may be immune or resistant to certain damage types _(such as werewolves, which are immune to Normal, Poison, and Magic, thus requiring a Silvered weapon to deal damage to them)_.

Aether is an exceptionally rare damage type. Active defenses cannot be used to defend against Weapon blows delivered with the "Aether" damage type _(ie, they cannot be Resisted or Dodged)_. They can be blocked with a weapon or shield like any other weapon blow, however.

By default, all weapons use the Normal damage type. However, _Aura_ effects may grant characters or specific items the ability to utilize other damage types. 

Items that have an aura property _must_ swing for that damage type, unless superseded by another explicitly-stated effect _(such as a character with an Aura ability)_.

#### Carriers
Carriers impart the named effect to the target if the weapon blow successfully reduces the target's current body points. It functions the same as if the target were affected by a Strike ability of the appropriate type:

| Damage Type    | Strike Delivery |
| -------------- | --------------- |
| Normal, Silver | Physical Strike |
| Magic          | Spell Strike    |
| Poison         | Toxin Strike    |
| Aether         | Aether Strike   |
> [!EXAMPLE] Example
Ebenezer the Elf is fighting some giant spiders when one of them hits him with 5 Poison Sleep. Ebenezer has 20 Body, but no armor, so when the hit connects, Ebenezer the Elf will lose 5 Body and fall asleep as though they were hit by a Toxin Strike Sleep.

Unless explicitly stated, a character is always able to drop their carrier from their weapon blows. Only one carrier may be used per weapon blow, so even if the character has many carrier abilities, they may only use at most 1 per swing.
> [!EXAMPLE]
Leonardo the Lich has the transform abilities Carrier: Drain and Carrier: Stun. Bob can choose to swing 5 Magic, OR 5 Magic Drain, OR 5 Magic Stun. Leonardo **cannot** swing 5 Magic Drain Stun.

Note: Abilities and effects that cause damage or healing, such as Mana Bolt and Heal Light Wounds, can never function as Damage Carriers.

#### Damage Call Examples
> [!EXAMPLE]
> Anduvius the Adventurer has a normal longsword, a transform with the Magic Aura and Flame Aura abilities, and a Frost coating applied to the weapon. Anduvius can choose to deliver any of the following weapon blows:
> * 5 Magic
> * 5 Normal
> * 5 Magic Flame
> * 5 Normal Flame
> * 5 Magic Frost
> * 5 Normal Frost

> [!EXAMPLE]
> Velma the Vampire Hunter has a silvered long sword. They may only swing 5 Silver with it. If they wish to swing 5 Normal, they must use a different weapon.

> [!EXAMPLE]
> Quentin the Quicksilver Construct has the transform ability Silver Aura. While wielding a normal Long Sword, Quentin may choose to swing 5 Normal OR 5 Silver, at their discretion.

> [!EXAMPLE]
> Miracle Max has the ability Poison Aura and a long sword enchanted with Magic Aura. Max may only choose to swing 5 Poison OR 5 Magic with that sword.
  
> [!EXAMPLE]
> Archibald the Artificer has a silvered short sword. He decides to use his artificing skill to enchant the sword with a Magic Aura. The resulting weapon is no longer considered silvered, and will only have Magic Aura on the item tag.

### Ability Verbals
Ability verbals have two components: Delivery Type, and Effect. They will always take the form of `<Delivery Type> <Effect>`.
#### Ability Delivery Methods
A **delivery method** is the real-world way the player delivers a mechanic. This is the physrep or medium used at the event.

Delivery Methods are:
- Weapon Physrep
- Packet
- Potion Physrep
- Voice Radius

#### Ability Delivery Types
A **delivery type** is the in-world nature of an Ability or Effect. It describes what the character is using fictionally, not what the player is holding physically.

Delivery Types can be:
- Physical
- Physical Strike
- Magic (or spell incant)
- Spell Strike
- Toxin
- Toxin Strike
- Aether
- Aether Strike

| Delivery Type   | Method         | Example                 |                                                                   |
| --------------- | -------------- | ----------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Spell           | Packet, Touch  |                         |                                                                   |
| Physical        | Packet         | Physical Entangle Arms  | A spider using its silk to bind their target's arms to their side |
| Magic           | Packet         | Magic Flame Bolt 10     | A Flame Elemental using their innate magic to launch a fireball   |
| Toxin           | Packet         | Toxin Sleep             | A bandit using a blowdart to deliver a sleep poison               |
| Aether          | Packet         | Aether Magic Bolt 10    |                                                                   |
| Physical Strike | Weapon PhysRep | Physical Blind          | A gladiator throwing sand in their opponent's eyes                |
| Spell Strike    | Weapon PhysRep | Spell Strike Weakness   | The touch of a death knight sapping the strength of their target  |
| Toxin Strike    | Weapon PhysRep | Toxin Strike Stun       | A venomous creature injecting a stunning poison into their target |
| Aether Strike   | Weapon PhysRep | Aether Strike Something |                                                                   |

### Spell Incants
Incants are verbals used to cast spells. They are as if the ability were delivered as `Magic <Spell Name>`, except that the character must be capable of speaking to cast the spell.

### Botched and Incorrect Incants and Verbals
If a player accidentally or mistakenly fails to correctly speak a verbal or incant, including interruption for any reason, the spell or ability automatically fails. The results are the same as if the caster were disrupted while casting the spell (See [[Disrupted Spells]]).


