# Roleplaying the Game
Roleplay operates on a collective agreement:  when you are In Game (IG), the fiction is real, and we treat it as such. This means that everything you say or do is treated as In Character (IC) and attributed to the character you are portraying. When you are Out of Game (OOG), you step outside of that fiction. The character pauses, the real you is present, and everything you do is considered Out of Character (OOC). While that can initially seem complicated, the distinction exists to protect the game from the real world and vice versa.

## "In Game" vs "Out of Game"
We have a few useful ways to aid in determining the distinction between what is IG versus what is OOG.

### White Headbands
White headbands are the most common way to signal being out of game. Once Lay On has been called after PC Talk, if you are not in game as your character yet, you must have a white headband on. If you do not have a white headband, you may request one from staff. If there are none available, you may signify your out of game status by holding a hand to your forehead or touching the top of your head with a held item. This gesture is accepted as an OOG/OOC signal and frequently used by NPCs when not in game.

If you are in game, you should not react or speak to anyone that is wearing a white headband without first going out of game yourself. It is generally seen as poor etiquette to break the environment for others.

When your character dies and your dying count has expired, after dropping all in game items, you should put on a white headband and go to Logistics/NPC Camp to register your death. Your spirit cannot interact in any manner with others.

### IG vs OOG Areas
At an event, the expectation is that players can remain in character for the entire weekend. To help facilitate that, most areas at any event site are considered in game. The exclusions to this vary for each site and reminders are given at the start of each event.

**Common IG Areas**
* **Cabins/Rooms**: Where players sleep and store in game and out of game items not currently in use. If possible, out of game items are best stored under the beds or in a marked container to avoid confusion.
* **Tavern**: The main gathering building at any site. You may encounter other Player Characters (PCs) as well as both friendly and hostile Non-Player Characters (NPCs). It is also where meals are served and where snacks and drinks can be found.
* **Tavern Kitchen**:  This area is considered in game, but combat is strictly prohibited in this area. If you find yourself in a combat situation while in the kitchen, all combatants should immediately cease combat and move to a combat safe area before resuming combat. 

**Common OOG Areas**
* **NPC Camp/Logistics**: NPC Camp or Logistics is where the plot team is located when they are not running mods or playing NPCs. The building is considered out of game, although it may on the rare occasion be used to run non-combat mods. It is also the location of the mod request basket, where players can submit requests for specific mods they would like to do at the current event. This allows the plot team to know what specific activities to run. As this is a building used by plot and staff, there may be ongoing discussions concerning a storyline, please make sure to knock before entering.
* **Plot Cabins/Rooms**: Cabins and rooms where plot, full time NPCs (volunteers that are assisting plot for the full event), and sometimes staff sleep and store their personal belongings. These buildings or rooms are considered OOG and if not explicitly called out, they are usually marked to indicate their status. Like NPC Camp, these areas may occasionally be used to run non-combat mods.
* **Bathrooms and Showers**:  While all areas around bathrooms are considered in game, these areas are explicitly considered out of game. 

## The World
Chronicles is a sword & sorcery fantasy game set in a pre-industrial world called Evren. Our chapter primarily centers around the port town of Varos within the Kingdom of the Terran Valley. A weekend event is referred to as a market fair, during which adventurers from all over this world typically meet in Varos. In Evren, adventurers may be regarded as <i>different</i> from the normal folk in the world.   

Chronicles science, medicine, and technology is roughly equivalent to 14th century Earth. For roleplay, players are encouraged to act, speak, and behave as if they exist in that time frame. We do of course allow players to use modern medicine but if possible, it should be done away from a large crowd to promote the in game atmosphere.

### No Religions
We strive to be inclusive and respectful at Chronicles and do not want anyone to be in the situation of giving offense to others. The use of any real world religious symbols or iconography in the game, including costuming, garb, or props, is explicitly disallowed. Similarly, in roleplay, it is unacceptable to use invocations of distinctly recognizable figures or beings of real world religious or spiritual importance. If you're uncertain at all about if something may be problematic, make sure to speak with the head of plot first.

### Politics
In game politics are part of life. Whether a character wishes to serve a king loyally, ignore his command, or attempt a rebellion is up to them! Just know that there may be in game consequences for a character's actions. OOG political symbols, slogans, and iconography are explicitly disallowed.

### Necromancy
Evren as a whole does not view necromancy as an inherently evil or bad thing, though most people find it at least distasteful. There are laws against it in nearly all kingdoms, and for those where it is not, there are guilds that regulate and oversee its use.

### Wizards' Guild of Varos
The Wizards' Guild, sometimes referred to as the mage's guild, is located in Varos. Joining the guild costs 1 gold per year, payable to Logistics or the current Guildmaster.

Member Benefits
* Roleplay benefits such as titled positions, research requests, access to rare books and artifacts, or augmentation of a Knowledge Skill.
* Access to select limited use, special, or rare ritual scrolls and production recipes.

Benefits Available To Everyone
* Access to the Standard Library of Ritual Scrolls.
* May access a small library of books that grant Rank 10 Knowledge on specific topics such as cultures of the Khuurai Steppe or psychopomps of the northern lands. Check with the Wizards' Guild for the most up-to-date listing!

### Crafters' Guild of Varos
The Crafters' Guild is a place where characters may rent fully equipped workshops, allowing them to begin their journey as a producer of goods. This guild does not have any annual membership fees and provides the following benefits:
* Roleplay benefits such as titled positions, research requests, or augmentation of a Knowledge Skill.
* May purchase Anima Gems for 1 gold each.
* May rent the tools and space required for producing goods for 1 silver per item, up to 10 total items.
    * Crafting in excess of this limit requires a character to invest in their own space and tools. A character may purchase their own workshop for 1 year at the cost of 5 gold, payable to Logistics. Character workshops may only be used by the character that purchased it.

## Preparing for an Event

### Costuming
Continued participation in Chronicles will require a costume for a character that draws on fantasy and historical influences. A costume helps with being a part of the world, allows for the expression of aspects of a character, and contributes towards the effort to create an experience that feels like an otherworldly adventure. Wearing garb saves mundane clothes from getting damaged or dirty and can serve as an additional indicator for whether the player's character is present or the player is NPCing.

While garb need not be constructed with historical techniques and materials -- nobody is going to throw a fit over polyester blends -- efforts should be taken to escape the modern "jeans & t-shirt" silhouette. Fellow players can help create or find suitable elements. Costuming is sort of a journey all players are consistently on.

Beyond that, jewelry and pouches are just a few other accessories that create endless opportunities for character expression. While adding to garb/costume, players need to make certain that they do not have anything that endangers them or others. e.g. Glass vials are neat, but when they break they become hazards that must be properly disposed of. Dangling hoop earrings may suit a character, but they could be snagged by a weapon and pulled.

A Note on Disguises: PCs will always recognize PCs despite disguises.


### Makeup
Some races have specific makeup requirements. In general, we ask that you do your best to make your race recognizable through costuming and/or makeup. Because we are typically outside for our events and you would need to wear your makeup for long periods of time, use of materials that do not breathe well, like full-enclosure prosthetic masks are not recommended.
Products that are recommended will vary, but here is a short list to get you started:
* Moisturizer: Cetaphil Moisturizing Cream
* Primer: e.l.f. Hydrating Face Primer
* Paint: Mehron Liquid Paint or Mehron Paradise AQ
* Barrier Spray: UrbanDecay, Mehron, or Ben Nye
* Makeup Removal: Open Nature Facial Cleansing Wipes & Dove Deep Moisture Body Wash