# New Player Guide

---

## Hello (potentially) New Player!

Welcome to Chronicles.  Whether you have been LARPing for years or have never seen a tabard in your life, Chronicles welcomes you.  Chronicles is your story waiting to happen.  You share the story with many other players, but you are no less important!  Our community aims to foster a safe place for players to act out these stories and share in the experiences of being the hero (or villain) of their own story, be them triumphs or losses.

We would love for you to get involved at a speed you are comfortable with. Many ways to do this are possible:
* Attending and hanging out before a game to meet people and ask questions.
* Try playing a Non-Player Character (NPC) for a weekend and experience different aspects of the game.  Volunteering as a NPC can be a great opportunity to get a broader grasp of the rules, try different abilities, and experience alternate combat styles, all while you have someone from staff available to help guide you, answer questions, and ensure you are also having a good time.
* Play a pre-built character. 
* Dive in and make a character of your own.

We hope you reach out soon, make a character, and become a familiar face to the market fair of Varos.

## Getting Started
Ready to create your first character, but do not know where to start?  This section is full of references, tips, advice from new and old players, and information aimed at helping with fleshing out a character concept.

Note:  While reading this rulebook, please remember that when this rulebook refers to "players", it is referring to the real-life person playing the game.  When it refers to "characters" it may refer to characters of players or non-monster characters played by staff or volunteers. "Player characters" (PCs) refers only to the characters of players.

### Character Creation

Creating a first character can be daunting, especially if a player has not roleplayed before.  Relax!  There is no requirement to show up with a fully fleshed out character on a first event -- or event a second, but you will want to have an idea of who your character is before their first market fair.  After all, adventurers are not born full-sized and equipped.  

The following questions not required to be answered.  They are intended to help you understand your character, so you can better portray them to fellow players and staff.

#### Character Considerations:
* What did your character do to make a living? 
* Where did your character live? 
* How does (or did) your character live? (Quality, professions, etc)
* Where did your character learn to use weapons/magic? 
* Who were/are your character's parents? 
* Does your character have siblings?
* Who likes your character?  Who does not like them?
* Does your character have any special rules, morals, ethics, or beliefs they adhere to?
* Does your character have goals or personal quests? 
* When did the adventuring life take hold? 
* Does your character have any outstanding debts? 
* Did your character have preconceived notions of other adventurers? 
* Who or what is important to your character?

#### Mechanically Building a Character:
All new players start with 100 Skill Points (SP), 10 body, and 5 armor.  <i>Body is the term used for a character's health or hit points.</i>  The 5 armor is considered a free bonus as long as the player is wearing garb or a costume.  Skill Points are used to purchase skills like the ability to swing a sword or cast a spell.  Players can use the Character Calculator to design their character.

1. Pick a name: People are going to have to call your character something!
2. Pick a Race: Your character's heritage dictates some extra abilities and can be a key element to the presentation of your character.
3. Choose Specializations: There are several pools that are used in Chronicles. Prioritization of those specializations determines the cost of the abilities inside of that pool.  Even if a player does not intend to be involved in combat, it may behoove them in the future to have these picked out.
   - Loosely you can look at them this way:
     - Stamina focuses on buying weapon proficiencies and skills to do damage. 
     - Agility focuses on buying utility skills that influence combat through means other than damage.
     - Magic focuses on buying the schools of magic, and mana to use the spells in those schools.
4. Purchase applicable skills using skill points:  This is how to fine-tune a character and the feats they are capable of.  We also have a calculator to help make this easier!

### Skill Point Gain:
* All characters earn 3 Skill Points per day of an event.
* Characters under 200 Build gain Skill Points at 2x the rate.
* Players can accrue up to 1 extra Skill Point per day by working a NPC shift (See the sections on NPC and Goblin Points for more details).

### Reallocating Skill Points
* All characters under 200 Skill Points can be recreated or rewritten between events, including the character's name, race, skillset selection, SP expenditures, and transforms.
* Above 200 Skill Points, players may freely reallocate their skillset selections and Skill Point allocations between events. Changing the character's race and other aspects of the character require approval from the Plot Team.
* During an event, characters may only reallocate their Skill Points as the result of a Spirit Forge ritual, when unlocking new transform abilities, or with the approval of the Head of Plot. <i>A Spirit Forge is an advanced ritual that allows a player to change their character's class and skill point purchases.</i>

Have a character in another LARP system and want to transfer it to Chronicles?  Please see our Transfer Policy!

### Quick Reference of Common Terms
If they have not before reaching this section, new players are sure to hear plenty of words or acronyms used that they may be unclear on as to the meaning -- or at least the meaning of them for Chronicles.  Below is a short list of those someone will likely hear.  A longer glossary is available further in the rulebook.

|Term|Meaning|Explanation|
|:---|:---|:---|
|Body|Numerical value representative of a character's health.|Also sometimes referred to as health or hit points.|
|Boffer|A weapon physical representation.|Also referred to as "claws" or "bites" depending on length.  These are simple weapon reps.|
|Build|The total amount of Skill Points a player has.|This term is often used interchangeably with Skill Points or SP and not a way to refer to SP while roleplaying.|
|Concentration|An action taken for in game benefit.|Concentration is used for many things, such as abilities or Resting (see below).  While Concentrating, a player must be silent, may not use skills or items, and may not run.|
|GP|Goblin Points|The name of points given to players in exchange for volunteering or donating their time and/or money.|
|IBGA|In Between Game Actions|This is a heads up email sent to plot at least a week prior to the next event that gives them an idea of what a player's character worked on "off board".  It is a good option for things that do not need back and forth such as research, sending a letter, or a boring thing a player does not want to do at game. |
|IC/IG|In Character/In Game|Refers to things that are happening in the game.|
|Metagaming|Players choosing to use out of character knowledge as their characters.|This is when a character knows things they did not actually learn in game and either communicates it to others or modifies their behavior against their normal behavior or in response to the OOC knowledge.|
|Mod|Module|This is an event during game where plot will run pieces of storyline for players to interact with.|
|NPC|Non-Player Character|This is either plot or a player volunteering time and is either going to be a character or a mob.|
|OOG/OOC|Out of Game/ Out of Character.|Separating a player's knowledge from their character's knowledge is a hard practiced skill.  Most players actively avoid engaging in metagaming, but there are good forms of metagaming, such as ensuring others get involved.|
|PC|Player Character|This may sometimes be used to refer to the players, but in general it refers the character a player is portraying.|
|Phys Rep/Rep|Physical representation|Also referred to as "rep".  Term for any weapon, shield, armor, or item prop.|
|Rest|Skill/Ability Reset|Rest or resting referrs to when a player is able to reset their used skills and/or abilities.|
|Retcon|Revising words or actions.|Retconning is announced on an out of game level and refers to when a player wishes to "take back" character's actions or words.  Most often, this is done because of an out of game misunderstanding.|
|RP|Roleplay|Roleplay refers to actions, emotes, or words that are considered to be performed not by the player, but by a character.|
|SP|Skill Points|Points that accrue over a number of events a player attend that can be used to purchase or improve skills.|


## How Does Combat Work?
Chronicles is a boffer combat LARP that focuses as much on roleplay and interaction between PCs and NPCs as physical combat.  The goal of combat is for all participants and observers to be safe.  We emphasize light combat.  A general rule is, if a player's swing is enough to hurt someone, they are probably swinging too hard.  While accidents may happen, someone is more likely to twist an ankle on uneven ground than hurt themselves during combat.  More details can be found in the Combat section of the rulebook.


### How To Regain Expended Skills and Abilities
Skills and abilities are renewed through what is called rest, where a character spends ten minutes Concentrating.  Concentration requires the character to be silent, not use skills, abilities, or items, and not move faster than a walk.

Some skills or abilities are listed as "Daily".  These skills and abilities are renewed between 4:00 PM and 6:00 PM.  If a player is on a module (an event during game run by plot) between that time frame, they must attempt the reset immediately after it ends.  Daily skills and abilities require ten minutes of concentration to refresh.  More information about rest can be found in the Resting section.


### What To Bring To a First Event
Chronicles often has spare equipment to loan to newer players. That being said, beyond LARP-specific items, there are several things that any player should bring:
* Plain Clothes
* Comfortable Footwear
* Water Bottle/Canteen
* Notebook and Writing Utensil
* Hand Fan, Sunscreen, Bug spray
* Light

**Plain Clothes**
If a player is new and does not have lots of fancy LARP clothing yet, they do not need to worry!  A solid colored shirt and pants work just fine as starter clothes. Cargo pants (or similar) are great for early events due to the extra pockets. For shirts, a simple t-shirt, button up, or sweatshirt work fine. The most important part is that any clothing used does not have large graphics or logos on them.

**Comfortable Footwear**
Chronicles generally involves at least a moderate amount of walking. Therefor, comfortable footwear and socks are highly important. It is always recommended to make sure footwear is comfortable rather than just stylish. Extra socks are just as important. Especially if it is damp or rain is predicted.

**Water Bottle**
Especially important when it is hot out, but always useful. Chronicles generally has drinks, including water, on site, but sometimes a player finds themselves far away from the places they are stored. Having a portable source of liquid is incredibly useful for long mods.

**Notebook and Writing Utensil**
Notes are incredibly useful, both for in and out of game information. Many places sell notepads small enough to fit in a pocket. That plus some pens or pencils is a very cheap way to keep track of information.

**Hand Fan, Sunscreen, Bug Spray**
Chronicles is primarily an outdoors event. That means heat, sun, insects, water, and everything else. Simple things that are taken on any outdoor trip, like a fan, sunscreen, and bug spray, can help make an event significantly more enjoyable.

Allergic to DDT or prefer something more natural?  Be sure to test for allergic reactions before utilizing:  An effective repellent can be made by diluting rosemary essential oil with water.  About 10 drops per 1-2oz of water in a spray bottle.

**Light**
This one is more personal preference. Some people prefer to bring a light source to events. In most cases, this is a low-lumen flashlight or LED lantern. In all cases, the light needs to be dim enough to not blind other players. Usually this is done by covering the light in layers of cloth, commonly held on with rubber bands or hair ties, to dim it down.  Red lights and stargazing flashlights also work, although some may still need dimming.  If a brighter light is needed or about to be in use, it is generally polite to warn other players before turning it on, so they are prepared.

## What to Expect at an Event
Chronicles is a fantasy LARP. This means lots of swords, sorcery, and exotic races.  Game takes place from Friday evening through Sunday morning for a two-day event and Friday evening through Monday morning for a three-day event.

### Typical progression for a two-day event:
* **Friday**: Game begins on Friday evening. Site opens around 5 pm. Players check in with staff, find their beds, and get into costume. Check in may last until 10-11pm. Following check in, PC Talk is held, typically in a building identified as the tavern.  PC Talk is where plot & staff review important information for the event.  PC Talk completes with a communicated Lay On time.  Lay On is when the game officially starts.
* **Saturday**: Most of the gaming takes place on Saturday, and people can usually find something to do.  Breakfast, lunch, and dinner are served on Saturday too. Any players with dietary restrictions or allergies should alert staff during pre-registration or check in.
* **Sunday**: Gaming typically goes into early Sunday morning and usually wraps up between 2-4am.  Sunday is also when people pack up, complete checkout, clean up the site, and depart. Generally, people try to have everything done by noon.

### Important Locations
The exact physical locations of these vary by campsite, although they are usually pointed out during PC Talk.
* **Cabins (In Game)**: Where players sleep and store in game and out of game items not currently in use. If possible, out of game items are best stored under the beds or in a marked container to avoid confusion.
* **Tavern (In Game)**: The main in-game building. This is where most people gather between activities/mods and where both friendly and hostile Non-Player Characters (NPCs) tend to gather. It is also where meals are served and where snacks and drinks can be bought.
* **NPC Camp/Logistics (Out Of Game)**: NPC Camp or Logistics is where the plot team is located when they are not out running mods or playing NPCs. The building is considered out of game (OOG), although it may occasionally be used to run non-combat mods. It also usually has a whiteboard that players may add their name and a small note to in order to request a mod.  This allows the plot team to know what specific activities to run.  As this is a building used by plot and staff and there may be on-going discussions concerning a storyline, please make sure to knock before entering.
* **Plot Cabin (Out Of Game)**: Where plot, full time NPCs (volunteers that assist plot for the full event), and sometimes staff sleep and store their personal belongings.  This building is considered OOG.  Like NPC Camp, it may occasionally be used to run non-combat mods.

### General Advice
Do not be afraid to ask questions.  Even in the middle of combat or intense role playing, do not be afraid to ask what something does or means.  There are also many people with a decent grasp on the rules who can answer questions.  In game, asking questions is just as useful, although it may not always yield answers.

Remember, it is a game. We are all here to have fun and in general, people do not want to be rude or mean to others.  Try not to let any in-game interactions affect personal OOG opinions of the person behind the character.  In roleplay, many people act in ways they never would in real life!  That is one of the joys of the event.  It is not personal.  They do not hate the player, just the character.

However, sometimes, a player may find themselves with the perception that something negative occurred due to an OOG reason, may feel themselves becoming frustrated, or experienced something that they find disruptively upsetting.  In these situations and all like it, please never hesitate to approach staff about it or go out of game for a while.

## Secondary Characters
Once a player hits 200 Skill Points, they may create a secondary character.  This character will always have 75 percent of the primary character's SP, rounded up to the nearest whole number.  All characters beyond the second character will have 50 percent of the primary character's SP, rounded up to the nearest whole number.  No matter what character is played, all gained SP will be applied to the primary character.  Aside from SP, everything is tracked separately for each character (strain, ritual effects, items, etc).

Example:
> Jim has 275 SP.  His primary character has 275 SP. His secondary character has 206 SP.  His third/fourth/fifth/etc character has 137 SP.
> Jim attends a 2 day event and gains 6 SP.  His primary character now has 281 SP.  His secondary character has 75% of this, and now has 210 SP.  His third/fourth/fifth/etc character has 140 SP.

If a player wants to promote a character to their primary character and demote their primary to that character's position, they may do so with Plot's approval.