# Game Setting

---
Chronicles is a sword & sorcery fantasy game set in a pre-industrial world called Evren.  Our chapter primarily centers around the port town of Varos within the Kingdom of the Terran Valley.  Adventurers from all over this world -- and a former world named Tyra -- meet in Varos for the market fairs.

In Evren, adventurers are regarded as <i>different</i> from the normal folk in the world.  For example, adventurers are much less likely to easily suffer permanent death, they tend to grow rapidly in skill, and they generate gold -- or so a certain simple Kobold merchant might claim.

A weekend event is referred to as a market fair and these are nearly always held in Varos, but Evren has plenty of other locations to visit, ~explode~ explore, form alliances, build towns, make enemies, and more.  A longer, player-maintained glossary of in world places and people can be found here: [Evren Reference and Glossary](https://docs.google.com/document/d/18_MQ0yYi5V50OxzQyPD17ieH1Wy_xmMLid2CtQKyeKM/edit)

## Game Atmosphere
Chronicles science, medicine, and technology is roughly in the 14th century (middle ages).  For roleplay, players are encouraged to act, speak, and behave as if they exist in that time frame.  We do of course allow players to use modern medicine but if possible, it should be done away from a large crowd to promote the in game atmosphere.

### Religion
There are beings known as gods in Chronicles, but how a character views or engages with them is up to the individual player.  No character is required to worship a god.

We strive to be inclusive and respectful at Chronicles and do not want anyone to be in the situation of giving offense to others.  Players are disallowed from using real world religious symbols or iconography with their costuming, garb, or props.  Similarly, in roleplay, players should also avoid use of or invocations of gods, demons, or other recognizable figures of real world religious or spiritual importance.

### Politics
In game politics are part of life. Whether a character wishes to serve the king loyally, ignore his command, or attempt a rebellion is up to them!  Just know that there may be in-game consequences for a character's actions.  As with religion, it is best to not use any recognizable OOG political symbols, since politics can be an anachronistic and fiery topic.
It is also best to not talk about OOG politics during game.

### Necromancy
Unlike the former world of Tyra, Evren as a whole does not view necromancy as an inherently evil or bad thing.  There will always be differing opinions held by the people of both worlds, but there are plenty of ways an adventurer that wishes to engage in necromancy may do so.