# Who You Will Encounter:  Staff, Players, Trust

## Plot Members and Marshals
Plot members and marshals are part of the staff of Chronicles.  The plot team serves the same function as a game master does in a tabletop role playing game (RPG).  During an event, the plot team works from the building identified as NPC Camp or Logistics. They will give rulings, run a mod, observe a ritual, and other out of game (OOG) tasks that are needed throughout a market fair.  If a player has a question on a rule or how something works, they will need to ask the appropriate marshal.  

**Plot Member**
A member of the group of people who work together to keep the game moving, adjudicate rules, run mods, and many other roles essential to the game.  In tabletop terms, they are essentially the game master or dungeon master.

**Mod Marshal**
A person who runs a mod for a group for PCs.  They will set the stage giving descriptions, locations, etc. Should any rule questions or disputes come up, the marshal has final say.  If a player believes the marshal made an incorrect call, they may bring it up with the marshal or a member of plot after the mod, when it does not disrupt the flow of the game.

**Ritual Marshal**
A person who oversees a player character (PC) perform ritual magic.  They will ensure all factors of the ritual are performed by the PCs and determine if the ritual is a success or failure.  More complex rituals will require a full plot member.

**Rogue Marshal**
If a character wishes to steal from someone's cabin, the player must have a rogue marshal present.  This marshal ensures that personal property is not taken, and that the would-be thief follows all rules of the game (lockpicking chests, recognizing circles of power, etc.)  Entering a cabin with intent to steal without a rogue marshal can have severe consequences such as referring the person to the local police for theft or breaking and entering.

### How to Become A Ritual Marshal
To become a ritual marshal, a player will need to volunteer with the head of the plot team.  The head of plot will ensure that the player knows the ritual rules and have the player marshal some rituals with a plot member.  Once the player has proven themselves, they can become a ritual marshal.


## Expectations of Participants

### General Etiquette
Help ensure we can return to these sites for future events by being respectful of the facilities and cleaning up after yourself.  If you notice a problem anywhere in the facility, please alert a member of the Plot Team or Staff immediately.

Pick up packets at the end of each fight or mod.  If they are wet, torn, or damaged, please throw them away.  Do NOT return these to the packet bucket, as this encourages the growth of mold.

You are responsible for cleaning your cabin at the end of the event.  This includes removal of personal items, trash removal, turning off lights, fans, the AC/Heat unit, and if necessary, sweeping and mopping.  For cabins with bathrooms and kitchens, this includes cleaning of these areas.

Smoking in the cabins is prohibited.  You must field strip your cigarettes.  If you do not know what this is, read here: https://www.wikihow.com/Field-Strip-a-Cigarette Please do not leave cigarette butts on the ground.

Do not bash specific groups or people.  It is okay to complain about circumstances and events without being specific.


### Hold & Medic Calls

If you hear anyone call "Hold" or "Medic" you must immediately stop all activity, movement, and be silent unless directed otherwise.  If you are physically able to, drop to one knee.  **These calls indicate an Out of Game emergency.**

Only the persons who have been identified as a Medic by the Plot Team or Staff should respond to the call of "Medic."  A Medic is an individual with CPR and/or First Aid certification or has a license to practice medicine.

Please do not call "Hold" or "Medic" unless you or someone else is injured in real life.


### In Game vs. Out of Game Areas & Combat

Out of Game Areas are areas that you are not permitted to engage in combat in.  You may not chase PCs or NPCs into these areas nor use these areas to hide from In Game events, NPCs, etc.

Bathrooms, showers, and Logistics/NPC Camp are considered Out of Game Areas.

#### No-Combat Areas
> Camp Eastman: The kitchen, stairwell, and second floor of the Lodge are considered in game, but combat is disallowed.
>
> All Sites: The kitchen in the dining hall (tavern) is also considered in game and combat is disallowed in this area.

Unless otherwise noted by staff, all other areas are considered in game.
