# Storytelling & Goals

## Adventures (Formerly Mods)
If adventurers are leaving town to do anything they’re heading out for a MOD (named after the tabletop pre-designed “modules”). MODs are how STAFF/PLOT (the people) drive a PLOT(the narrative) when a character decides on a course of action.  On occasion, the mod will come to the players, and NPCs will arrive at the market faire looking for a fight or maybe even someone to go do something for them. MODs don’t always mean fighting, but there is a reason some of Everen’s cities are encircled with walls. The goal of a MOD is to make the story move a little.

## Town Encounters (Formerly Town Mods)
While you may have or make your personal stories with interactions with players and NPCs, sometimes things are larger than your character. Happenings that absorb the effort of everyone at the MARKET FAIRE are ADVENTURES. Whether that’s the whole town being transported to another dimension and finding a way out, or the local orc tribes have started sieging Varos. These are opportunities to work together and drive a story forward you otherwise may have never touched. The goal of adventures is teamwork, and creating character interactions.

## Plotlines
Any collection of Mods and Adventures adds up to a PLOTLINE or PLOT (narrative). Plot lines at Chronicles often interlace and are generally involved with ADVENTURES & MODs. Plot lines hopefully culminate with a narrative payoff. For some players that might be completing a transform prerequisite, others may get a magic item out of it, some may get narrative satisfaction as they banish a metaphorical ghost of their past or win the trust of fellow adventurers. The goal of a plotline is to put your character on the stage and see how your character reacts to particular situations.

## Goals (capital G)
The goal of telling stories of any size and medium is the entertainment of its audience. STAFF/PLOT is not a separate team in opposition to players. STAFF/PLOT is trying to create an enjoyable experience for all players and have some fun for themselves. LARP is a collaborative experience, and if you are not having fun it's important that you vocalize that to STAFF/PLOT in a mature way and try to resolve the issue together.


