# Check In, Check Out, and Event Site Information

## Check In Procedure

---
Camp opens at 1700 Central (5pm).  Check in requirements are posted.  Players are asked to come fully prepared to check in, so as to not delay the start of game.
Common Requirements:
* Confirmation of a signed code of conduct.  This is an annual requirement at your first attended event.
* Confirmation of a signed event liability waiver.  This is an annual requirement at your first attended event.
* Confirmation of event fee payment.  PayPal / Cash
* Confirmation of meal ticket amount.
* Character sheet sign-off.
* Battle-board pick-up.
* Production pick-up.  This includes:
    * Printed tags to replace handwritten tags previously turned in.
    * Printed ritual scrolls to replace handwritten tags previously turned in.
    * Production requests submitted to `plot@larpchronicles.com` at least one week prior to the event.
    * Tag pick-up for any abilities that would generate a tag.
    * Pick-up for transform information where applicable.
* Durability stamps for any tagged items being brought into game.
    * Any items with durability being brought into game must be date stamped.
    * If your tag is laminated, it will not be stamped, but it must be shown at check in.
* Weapons safety check.
* Armor checks.
* Any questions you have.

## Check Out Procedure

---
Sadly, events do end and everyone has to go home for a while.  In order to have event attendance recorded -- and to gain skill points --, all players must complete check out.  Check out will be set up in same building check in was located in and similarly to check in, the requirements and instructions will be posted.

Common Requirements:
* On your character sheet:
  * NPC Shifts.  Ensure any NPC shifts you completed were signed for.  If they are not signed for, you will not receive credit for them.
  * Character bank deposits.  Please record the amount you are depositing.
  * Things for plot.  Please record any game currency, props, tags, notes, etc being submitted and what they are for.
* On your envelope (these will be provided):
  * First and last name.
  * Character's name.
  * Event date.
* Inside your envelope:
  * Character sheet.
  * Any battle-boards not already turned in.
  * Tags for anything that was expended during the event.
  * Currency being deposited to your character's bank.
  * Things for plot:  Game currency, props, tags, letters, notes, etc.
  * Tags to be recycled.  If you have the Recycling Skill and items you would like to recycle, please mark these tags with a 'R'.  The reclaimed materials will be available for you at your next check in.
* Add your name to the Goblin Point sheet for any donations of time or items.  Please see the Goblin Points section for more information.

## Event Fees & Meal Tickets

---
Our event fee is $25.00 per event day.  Two day events are $50.00 and three day events are $75.00.
* Discounts: If you bring a new player, you will both receive $25 off your event fee.  If you bring more than one new person, this discount will apply to your future event fees.
* Full-Time NPCs do not have to pay an event fee.  This must be pre-approved.  See the NPC section for more information.

Event fees and meal ticket funds may be paid with cash at check in or with Paypal at https://paypal.me/larpchronicles 
* If paying with PayPal, especially if you pay early or during registration, include your name, character name, and the name of any new players you are bringing.


### Tavern & Meal Tickets
* Tavern food & meals are not included in the event fee.  Please be sure to set up your meal ticket at check in.
* Meal tickets include access to all tavern-provided meals, beverages, and any additional offerings.
* Meal Tickets:
  * Two-Day Event - $20.00
  * Three-Day Event - $40.00
    
## Camp Site Rules During Check In

---
### Camp Eastman
* You may drive on any of the gravel roads, but please do not block them in case someone needs to get past where you stopped.
* You may drive up to the cabins if the ground is dry.  Please avoid damaging the grounds as much as possible.
* Once you have unloaded your vehicle, please immediately move it to the parking lot.

### Camp Illinek
* Vehicles are restricted to paved or gravel roads and may not be left unattended unless in a parking lot.  Do not drive on the grass or into campsite areas unless instructed to do so by a Camp Caretaker.
* During check out, after packing up, please help clean and sanitize surfaces, bathrooms, floors, any used dishes, and common areas.  Please take all trash to the dumpsters.
* Once you have unloaded your vehicle, please park it in the parking area in front of Camp Master and Booth or at the Archery Range.  Please do not park in front of the Sailing Center.

### Camp Loud Thunder
* Vehicles are restricted to the large parking lot across the street from the Admin building, by the flag poles.  Do not drive on the grass or into campsite areas.  Do not park on the gravel roads.  If assistance is needed to move items between your vehicle and the building, please see the site Caretaker.
* During check out, after packing up, please help clean and sanitize surfaces, bathrooms, floors, any used dishes, and common areas.  Please take all trash to the dumpsters.

## Cabins

---
There are no assigned cabins at Camp Eastman, but there is a requirement that you allow others to bunk in your cabin if there is space and other areas are not available.  At Camp Illinek, event registration includes bed reservations.

### Camp Eastman

All cabins have AC and heating units, windows, and at least one bunk bed.
* Four Honor Cabins, Large
  * Occupancy (each):  5
  * Includes: 2 bunk beds, a couch or bench.
* Four Honor Cabins, Small
  * Occupancy (each): 2
  * Includes: 1 bunk bed
* Eastman Lodge "The Lodge"
  * Occupancy: 11
  * Includes: sleeping mats in loft area, full kitchen, bathroom, and shower.
* Cook's Cabin
  * Reserved for plot team and full time NPCs.
  * Occupancy: 10
  * Includes: 4 bunk beds, 2 single-person beds, kitchenette, refrigerator, bathroom and shower.
* Silver Tomahawk
  * Reserved for the mods, but may be used if all other areas are full.
  * Occupancy: 10
  * Includes: refrigerator, 4 bunk beds, and couch.
* Tenting
  * Tents may not be set up near the logistics building or in an area that damages the site or causes a disruption or obstruction.

### Camp Illinek

Common areas have space for cots, sleeping mats, and air mattresses.  As the total number of beds is limited, if you have a cot, air mattress, or sleeping mat available, it is suggested to bring it.
* Sailing Center
  * Occupancy:  20
  * Includes: 16 bunk beds, 4 single-person beds, kitchenette, refrigerator, 6 bathrooms, 4 showers.
* Booth Lodge "Tavern"
  * Occupancy: 2+
  * Includes: 2 single-person beds, 2 bathrooms, 1 shower, full kitchen.
* Camp Master Lodge
  * Reserved for the plot team and full-time NPCs, but may be used if all other areas are full.
  * Occupancy:  10
  * Includes: 4 bathrooms, 2 showers, 2 full kitchens, 4 separate rooms.
* Tenting
  * Tents may be set up in the areas between Booth and Sailing Center.

### Camp Loud Thunder

Common areas have space for cots or sleeping mats.  There is not adequate room for air mattresses.  Each room in the Lodge has 2 bunk beds and shelving.
* Dunkin Lodge
  * Occupancy: 48
  * Includes: 2 bunk beds to each room, shelving.  Multi-person bathrooms, shower rooms, kitchenette, common area with seating.
* Tenting
  * Tents may not be set up near the logistics building or in an area that damages the site or causes a disruption or obstruction.
