# Armor

---
Armor is described as extra garb pieces made of defined materials and worn in targeted locations for the purpose of providing a character with extra defense in the form of Armor Points. A character can have a number of Armor Points up to their Armor Cap determined by what skills they have purchased. If the character is not using Dexterity Armor, they must also properly phys-rep their armor, with the type of armor required depending on the total amount of Armor Points. Phys-repped armor grants an equivalent based on the armor type and location. Finally, in order to benefit from Phys-repped armor, the character must possess the appropriate armor item tag. A player can only benefit from one armor item tag at a time.

## Armor Repair / Refit Armor

During combat, when damage is taken by a character, it is first deducted from the Armor Point total, unless otherwise stated by a specific spell or skill. If the player still has Armor Points remaining, it does not matter which location is covered by armor, they will still deduct the damage from their remaining points.

Once a character's Armor Points are below their maximum total, they may recover them through one of two methods:
1. The Rapid Refit Stamina Ability, which requires 5 seconds of uninterrupted roleplay to restore a character's Armor Point total back to its maximum.
2. Standard refitting of armor is achieved through roleplay. - A character may spend 1 minute of uninterrupted roleplaying adjusting armor, straps, and fit to restore a character's armor total back to its maximum.  A character may not walk during this.

## Armor Point Calculations

A character's Armor Points are determined by the following:
* Their purchased Armor Cap
* Their active skills
* The type of armor worn
* The location of worn armor
* The Armor Item Tag they possess

## Armor Types

There are 3 armor types: Light, Medium, and Heavy. An armor rep will be assigned a type when it is evaluated by a marshal. The type assigned to a rep will be determined by the material's rigidity, strength, and ability to resist punctures.

**Light Armor**: Flexible materials that are easily pierced, such as cloth or leather.  
**Medium Armor**: Materials that can resist mild pressure, but could still be pierced by eg. a foil or a crossbow bolt. Chainmail, hardened leather.  
**Heavy Armor**: Rigid materials that resist flexing and are resistant to being pierced, eg. platemail, scalemail.

| **Armor Type** | **Arm Armor Points** | **Leg Armor Points** | **Torso Armor Points** | **Max Armor Points** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Light Armor | 6 | 6 | 8 | 20 |
| Medium Armor | 12 | 12 | 16 | 40 |
| Heavy Armor | 24 | 24 | 32 | 80 |


### Light Armor

#### Cloth
Thick, quilted layers designed to blunt the worst of an adversary's blow and prevent immediately fatal strikes.  
**Required** A three-layer, quilted fabric, suede, supple leather, faux leather, or leather appearing fabric.

### Medium Armor
#### Hardened Leather
Hardened, formed leather that retains its shape and offers significantly more protection against piercing and slashing than its non-hardened counterpart. Less heavy than traditional metal armor, and more cost-effective for adventurers who lack coin.  
**Required**: At least 4oz hardened veg tan leather, or analog that has the ability to retain its shape under mild pressure.

#### Chain/Composite
Concentric, interlocking metal rings that provide a lighter alternative to full platemail armor, and allows for greater flexibility at the cost of sacrificing protection from piercing and crushing weapon blows.  
**Required**: Chainmail, rigid interlocked or overlapping rings/plates, fabric with simulated/printed chainmail pattern.

### Heavy Armor
#### Plate
Heavy, durable metal armor that provides superior protection from all manner of enemy attacks.  
**Required:** Solid formed metal plates, foam, plastic or other material that maintains its shape with firm pressure, preferably with an outward metallic appearance.

## Armor Locations

While a player may wear armor wherever and however they choose as is thematically appropriate for their character, there are only 3 locations that will count toward a character's final Armor Point total: **Arms**, **Legs**, and **Torso**.

Each location has "zones" of coverage. For an armor rep to contribute to a character's armor total, it must cover at least half of the zones for its location.

| **Armor Type** | **Zones** |
| --- | --- |
| Arms | Forearms, Upper Arms, Shoulders |
| Legs | Shins, Calves, Thighs |
| Torso | Front, Back |

### Helmets

A helmet can be substituted for either leg or arm armor. A character that is already wearing arm armor and leg armor will receive no benefit from wearing a helmet.

To qualify, helmets must be at least semi-rigid and otherwise conform to the rules for Medium Armor. The helmet must cover the top and back of the head, as well as the temples/ears. _(ie, the same areas a baseball batter's helmet covers, or an old timey leather football helmet).

Head coverings that will NOT qualify: Sombreros, baseball caps, cavalier's hats (ie 3 Musketeers-style hats), cloth hats.


### Armor Example

>Example: Spurt the Kobold has purchased enough Armor Training to raise their total Armor Cap to 40 points.
* They have not purchased any ranks in Dexterity Armor, and so they must wear a phys rep of all their armor.
* Spurt is wearing a chain shirt (16 points), hard leather greaves (12 points), and hard leather pauldrons (12 points)
* Spurt possesses an Armor Tag for 40 points of Armor.

Altogether, Spurt is wearing a total of 40 Armor Points, and has an Armor Cap of 40, which means they are able to use all of their Armor Points during combat.
