# Garb
Continued participation in Chronicles will require a costume for your character that draws on fantasy and historical influences. A costume helps you feel like a part of the world, allows for the expression of aspects of your character, and tells your fellow players that you’re contributing towards the effort to create an experience that feels like an otherworldly adventure. Wearing garb saves your mundane clothes from getting damaged or dirty and can serve as an additional indicator for whether or not your character is present or even you, the player, are NPCing. 
While garb need not be constructed with historical techniques and materials (nobody is going to throw a fit over polyester blends) efforts should be taken to escape the modern “jeans & t-shirt” silhouette. Fellow players can help you create or find suitable elements. Costuming is sort of a journey all players are consistently on. Beyond that jewelry and pouches are just a few other accessories that create endless opportunities for character expression. While adding to your garb/costume make certain that you don’t have anything that endangers you or others: (e.g. Glass vials are neat, but when they break they become hazards to you and others. Dangling hoop earrings may suit your character but they could be snagged by a weapon and pulled.)

((I suggest adding a picture to illustrate the T-shirt & Jeans v Tunic and Pants silhouettes.))
PCs will always recognize PCs despite disguises.

# NPC-Garb
Those who are NPCing often wear tabards that allude to what they are playing. It may be hard to tell what’s going on in the dark. You can always ask, “Are you there?/ Are you in game?/ Who goes there?”	If you receive an answer without full information you can always move & inspect them closer at your peril, with the question of, “What do I see?”