# Melee Weapons


---
* All combat reps must be certified as safe. Safety checks for all combat reps may be performed at check-in.  Safety checks MUST be performed EVERY EVENT; they do not carry over from prior events.  A marshal may request to inspect your reps at any time during the event, and, if deemed unsafe, may lose their safety certification.
* Claws / Bites must be made to normal weapon specs, including approved core materials and must have more than a 4" striking surface.


| WEAPON               | STRIKING SURFACE | HANDLE LENGTH | TOTAL LENGTH | HEAD REQUIRED |
|:---------------------|:----------------:|:-------------:|:------------:|:-------------:|
| Short Sword / Claws  |    18" - 24"     |   5" - 14"    |   24" - 36"  |      No       |
| * Short Blunt / Axe  |    18" - 24"     |   5" - 14"    |   24" - 36"  |      Yes      |
| Long Sword / Bites   |    18" - 36"     |   5" - 14"    |  >36" - 48"  |      No       |
| * Long Blunt / Axe   |    18" - 36"     |   5" - 14"    |  >36" - 48"  |      Yes      |
| Two-Handed Sword     |    40" - 48"     |   5" - 30"    |  >48" - 60"  |      No       |
| Two-Handed Blunt     |    40" - 48"     |   5" - 30"    |  >48" - 60"  |      Yes      |
| ** Spear (One-Handed)|    30" - 45"     |   5" - 30"    |   48" - 60"  |      No       |
| * Polearm            |    40" - 48"     |   5" - 30"    |   60" - 72"  |      Yes      |
| Parrying Dagger      |    7"  - 13"     |   5" - 6"     |   12" - 18"  |      No       |

&#42; You can only swing (Cannot stab) with a Polearm or a blunt weapon.
<BR>
** You can only stab (cannot swing) with a spear.

### Striking Surface ### 
The striking surface specifies the minimum and maximum amount of padded striking surface the weapon *must* have. _Any weapon that has less padding than the specified minimums will not pass inspection, even if it falls within the Total Length requirements!_

### Handle Length ###
The handle length specifies the minimum and maximum length of the handle by which the weapon can be wielded or held.

`Example: A Short Sword with a 14" handle will have to be at least 32" long overall, to accommodate the minimum striking surface length of 18" (14" handle + 18" striking surface = 32" total length). It is not possible to make a 24" long Short Sword that has a 14" handle; the blade would be only 10" long, which is less than the minimum (18") for the striking surface of a short sword.`

### Weapon Heads ###
Axes, blunt weapons, and polearms are required to have an open cell foam "head" that clearly conveys what the weapon represents. The minimum size of a weapon head is 4"x2"x2".
