# Combat Rules

## Armor: Immunities

In the event that the player are hit by an ability that they are immune to, their armor does not take the damage.

## Armor: Receiving Damage

During combat, when damage is taken by a character, it is first deducted from the Armor Point total, unless otherwise stated by a specific spell or skill. If the player still has Armor Points remaining, it does not matter which location is covered by armor, they will still deduct the damage from their remaining points.

## Bows and Crossbows: Blocking

Bows may be used to block attacks.  Bows may also be used to block attacks while wielding a One-Handed Weapon, so long as the skills One-Handed Weapons, Ranged Weapons, and Dual Wield are purchased.  If struck by an attack, the player must spend a 3 count to restring the bow before they may fire with it again _(See: Warbow)_.  

## Casting Spells

Casting a spell is an act of will and physical effort combined, gathering the energy that the caster has prepared in their memory and then throwing it out into the world. In LARP Chronicles, a spell's energy is represented by a "spell packet", a small bundle of cloth, usually filled with bird seed, that is thrown at, or touched against other participants, in order to use magic.

When casting a spell, first a player must have a spell packet in a free hand. Then, they cast the spell by speaking the entire incant or verbal (as specified by each spell), then throwing the packet, swinging their weapon (in the case of Spell Strikes), or touching the packet to their target (in the case of touch casting). If the spell packet or weapon strikes a target successfully, they are affected as per the spell's description, unless they are capable of resisting the magic. 

A spell or magic ability delivered via packet or Spell Strike successfully lands on the target if the packet or weapon phys rep makes contact with any part of the target's body, clothing, held items, or possessions.

A "Free Hand" in this instance means that the hand holding the spell packet may not be holding any other items. I.E., no swords, shields, potions, sticks, bedrolls, snack cakes, and such. A player may hold multiple spell packets in the same hand and still cast.

If a caster's spell incant or throw is disrupted, the Mana Points (or ability) used to cast the spell are lost the same as though it were successfully cast.  Taking damage does not interrupt a cast, however, effects that would prevent spellcasting (such as Stun, or being dead) can interrupt the casting of a spell. 

If a player accidentally or mistakenly fails to correctly incant a spell or ability, the spell or ability does not work. The Mana Points or ability used to cast the spell are not expended, and the caster simply has to start over with casting the spell. This is a "good faith" policy, and intentional abuse of this policy may be met with disciplinary action as per the Chronicles Code of Conduct.   

Some spells require a "X count" to cast where X may be three or five.  This is always intended to be X number of seconds.

## Ability Verbals and Damage Calls
Verbals have two different forms, _Damage Calls_ and Ability or Effect Verbals. 

Damage Calls always begin with a number (such as _5 Normal_), and anything that begins with a number is always a Weapon Blow. They will always take the form of `<Damage Amount> <Damage Type> <Carrier(optional)>`. 
 
Ability verbals have two components: Delivery Type, and Effect. They will always take the form of `<Delivery Type> <Effect>`.

### Delivery Methods
The Delivery Method is how a _player_ conveys an ability or effect. It is the real world, physical object used. _(ie, the fabric and birdseed packet, or latex-covered foam.)_

Delivery Methods are one of:
- Weapon Physrep
- Packet
- Potion Physrep
- Voice Radius†

It is possible for abilities and weapon blows to be delivered via any Delivery Method (as specified by the skills of the character using the ability).

_† Not strictly a physical object, but you get the idea_

### Delivery Types
The Delivery Type of an ability verbal is the means by which a _character_ conveys an ability or effect. It is the fantasy, in-world object or energy the character is wielding. _(ie, a bolt of magical energy, a vial of poison, a steel sword, a wooden arrow, etc.)_

Delivery Types can be:
- Physical
- Physical Strike
- Magic (or spell incant)
- Spell Strike
- Toxin
- Toxin Strike
- Aether
- Aether Strike
- Weapon Blows†

### Damage Calls
Directly dealing damage requires a weapon blow. There are three components to a damage call: the Damage Amount, Damage Type, and (optionally) the Carrier.

> Examples of damage calls:
> 5 Normal
> 3 Magic Flame
> 10 Poison Sleep

#### Damage Amount
Generally, this amount is calculated based on the number of relevant Weapon Proficiencies and Backstabs the character has (though it can be modified by some skills and abilities). It is the amount of damage that will be inflicted to target should the attack be successful. The Damage Amount may never be less than 0.  

#### Damage Type
There are 5 Damage Types:

- Normal
- Silver
- Poison
- Magic
- Aether

Some creatures may immune or resistant to certain damage types _(such as werewolves, which are immune to Normal, Poison, and Magic, thus requiring a Silvered weapon to deal damage to them)_.

Aether is an exceptionally rare damage type. Active defenses cannot be used to defend against Weapon blows delivered with the "Aether" damage type _(ie, they cannot be Resisted or Dodged). They can be blocked with a weapon or shield like any other weapon blow, however.

By default, all weapons use the Normal damage type. However, _Aura_ abilities may grant characters or specific items the ability to utilize other damage types. 

Items that have an aura property _must_ swing for that damage type, unless superceded by another explicitly-stated effect (such as a character with a Monstrous Aura ability).

#### Carriers
Carriers impart the named effect to the target is the weapon blow successfully reduces the target's current body points. 

Unless explicitly stated, a character is always able to drop their carrier from their weapon blows. Only one carrier may be used per weapon blow, so even if the character has many carrier abilities, they may only use at most 1 per swing.
>Example: Leonardo the Lich has Monstrous Carrier: Drain and Monstrous Carrier: Stun. Bob can choose to swing 5 Magic, OR 5 Magic Drain, OR 5 Magic Stun. Leonardo cannot swing 5 Magic Drain Stun.

Note: Abilities and effects that cause damage can never function as Damage Carriers.

#### Damage Call Examples
> Example: 
> Anduvius the Adventurer has a normal longsword, a transform with the Magic Aura and Flame Aura abilities, and a Frost coating applied to the weapon. Anduvius can choose to deliver any of the following weapon blows:
> * 5 Magic
> * 5 Normal
> * 5 Magic Flame
> * 5 Normal Flame
> * 5 Magic Frost
> * 5 Normal Frost

> Example:
> Velma the Vampire Hunter has a silvered long sword. They may only swing 5 Silver with it. If they wish to swing 5 Normal, they must use a different weapon.

> Example:  
> Gygax the Golem has the transform ability Monstrous Silver Aura. While wielding a normal Long Sword, Gygax may choose to swing 5 Normal OR 5 Silver, at his discretion.

> Example:    
> Miracle Max has the ability Monstrous Poison Aura and a long sword enchanted with Magic Aura. Max may only choose to swing 5 Poison OR 5 Magic with that sword.
  
> Example:  
> Archibald the Artificer has a silvered short sword. He decides to use his artificing skill to enchant the sword with a Magic Aura. The resulting weapon is no longer considered silvered, and will only have Magic Aura on the item tag.


## Defense Slots

Using any skill, ability, or effect that grants a Resist or Dodge requires a Defense Slot to be prepared.  All characters have one Defense Slot by default and may purchase additional slots with Skill Points.  Each Defense Slot a character may prepare and consider active.  A character may only have as many Active Defenses as they have Defense Slots.  Once prepared, any Active Defense may be used to defend against the appropriate type of attack, allowing them to call Resist or Dodge respectively.

### Healed By [Effect]
When you have an ability or active effect that makes you take Healed By an effect. For example: Shock, Stone, Flame, or Frost.  Creatures with this ability cannot be healed by weapon attacks (except Spellstrikes), but can be healed by packet attacks. 

Examples:  
You are healed by Frost.
* If you are hit with a spell "I conjure a Frost Bolt 10." Or "Spellstrike I conjure a Frost Bolt 10" you would say "Got it, appears to heal me" and restore up to 10 body (if you are below your maximum body).
* If you are hit with an "Aether Frost Bolt 10" you would call "Got it, appears to heal me".
* If you are hit with a sword and someone says "10 Magic Frost" the call would be "Got it" and you would take the damage as normally.


### Immunities

When you have an inherent ability or active effect that makes you explicitly immune to an effect you call "No Effect" if you are hit by a spell or weapon carrier using that effect.  If you are immune to part of the weapon damage call then you are immune to all of it.  The exception to this would Stasis or other abilities that explicitly state the things to which you become immune (and that call should always be, "No effect; Visibly in Stasis").

Examples:
* If you have Immune to Toxin, and you are hit by a Sleep dart, you would call "No Effect".
* If you are Immune to Curse and got hit with a weapon swinging 10 Magic Curse, you would call "No Effect".
* If you are Immune to Shock and got hit with an "Aether Shock Bolt 10" you would call "No Effect".
* If you are not immune to Stun, and you get hit by a Stun spell, you would call "Got it". If you are then hit by another Stun effect, you would call "Got it" again.
* If you are a PC with no non-standard effects, are not dead, and get hit by a Create Undead, you would call "Got it".
* If you do not have Immune to Life on your stat card, are alive, and get hit by a Life spell, you would call "Got it".
* If you are dead and get hit by a Death spell, you call "Got it".
* If you are Dead, and you get hit by a Heal Wounds, Confine, etc., you would call "Got it"

## Killing Blows

Killing Blow is a 3-count that can be interrupted. When Killing Blowed, the target becomes Dead. Killing Blow 1, Killing Blow 2, Killing Blow 3 <type>.

The target of a killing blow may refuse it, so long as they are capable of movement.  Any killing blow is assumed to automatically be refused by a target capable of movement, unless explicitly accepted by the target.

## Magic Deliverance, Voice Radius, and Aether

Rarely, one may encounter entities that are capable of delivering magic quicker than normal, skipping the incantation and abridging it to simply Magic followed by the spell name, for example, Magic Fear. This is still an effective spell, and needs to be reacted to as such.

Similarly, some entities may deliver a spell via "Voice Radius," at which time anyone who can hear the declared spell, whether enemy or ally, is subject to it as if they'd been struck by the spell directly. This ability does not require the caster to have a spell packet in hand.

Finally, powerful creatures can sometimes deliver a spell as an Aether spell. If a player is struck by an Aether spell, no resistances can prevent the effect, and they are affected by it immediately.

## Physical Strikes

Physical strikes are weapon delivered combat effects used by characters. A physical strike is delivered once using a weapon attack, and must strike the target character successfully without being blocked in order to be a successful attack. Physical strikes are considered used whether the attack was successful or not. Physical strikes that are blocked by shields or weapons, have been blocked and are considered unsuccessful attacks. Unsuccessful physical strikes and physical strikes that have been resisted can be regained by the character resting. Physical strike effects are not magical in nature; therefore, they cannot be removed by the Dispel Magic spell or any removal skill that is limited to effects of magical origin only.

## Shields

The maximum surface area of a shield is 720 square inches. The longest dimension a shield may have is 36".

As long as the character has either hand on a shield, any physical type attack that comes into contact with the shield is considered effectively blocked.

Limitations:
* A shield may never be used for striking in combat. 
* Shields may not be used with two-handed weapons, bows, or crossbows.
* A character may not dual wield shields.
* Shields are not capable of blocking spell packets or toxins without the use of an ability.

## Spell Packets

Anything in a player's possession being struck by a spell causes them to take the effect of the spell, even if it is an illegal strike zone.  If illegal strike zones are being targeted repeatedly, inform Plot or a member of Staff immediately.


### Spellstrikes

Spellstrikes are spells cast upon a target via a physically represented weapon.  Spellstrikes may not be refused in the way touch casts can.  Active defenses that apply to packet-delivered spells may also apply to Spell Strike-delivered spells (such as Resist Magic).  The Parry skill will not defend against the effect of a Spellstrike.  If a player physically parries a Spellstrike, they take the effect of the spell. An individual capable of using Spellstrike may treat a wielded weapon as a spell packet for the purposes of touch-casting. Packets may not be used to Spellstrike.
	
### Touch-Casting

Touch-casting does not require physical contact, but it does require the proximity that physical contact could be established.  Be sure to gain a player's consent prior to physically touching them.   If a player is touch-casting, they are either touching the target directly with a spell packet or pointing at the target while holding a spell packet. 

The target has the ability to "refuse your touch-cast", causing the player to expend the magic to no effect.  Any spell may be touch-cast. The target of a touch-cast spell may refuse the touch-cast, so long as they are capable of movement. Any and every offensive or negative touch-cast spell is assumed to automatically be refused unless explicitly accepted by the target.