# Combat Etiquette

---
Keeping combatants around can be difficult without an agreement on how combat "works". The mechanics of combat on paper are a very different topic from the out-of-game social workings players follow. Below are several social agreements between combatants that are generally adhered to. If clarity is needed beyond this consult a fellow player, if clarity still eludes you then you should ask a marshal.  Violation of these rules may result in disciplinary protocols, however, please also keep in mind honest accidents happen. Other players are people and the level of contact we play at needs to be mutually regulated.

## Players Not Observing Etiquette
In the event there is a player that you believe is not following combat etiquette, if you are comfortable doing so, politely remind them about the rule they are violating.  Additionally, always inform the person running the mod/plot/staff about the instance, even if it was only once. 

## Light Touch
When contacting others with your weapon, you need only make the barest of contact. If you are hearing loud noises when you hit others or their equipment, equipment is regularly breaking when you use it, or other players seem frequently disgruntled then odds are you are swinging too hard. You can be fast without hitting hard, and you need not follow through on a swing. Your attacks should look and feel like a game of tag, not a game of football. It is also possible to be proactive and ask for feedback from fellow players on the frequency, intensity, and locations you're striking.

## Strike Zones
Strike locations are zones that are reasonable to aim for, target, and strike with marshal-approved equipment (see Weapon Safety Check). Players found to be intentionally targeting non-strike zones will face disciplinary action. 

For melee weapons limit striking to the carried melee equipment (weapons and shields), torso, hands, arms, feet, and legs; while avoiding contact with the head and groin. Intentionally targeting outside of these zones with melee weapons will draw the attention of players, and staff, and initiate disciplinary protocols. If there is contact with out-of-bounds zones, ensure that your fellow player is okay to continue, ask if they need a moment, and proceed accordingly.

Dialogue example:
*P1 hits P2 in the head.* 
P1: "Hey are you okay?" 
P2: "Yes, just a bit rattled."
P1: "Are you good to continue?"
P2: "No…"
P1: "Do I need to get staff?"
P2: "No, I'll be good in a minute."
P1: "Okay, have a seat and get some water, I'm going to carry on elsewhere. Jump back in when you're ready."

Striking with packets is slightly different. Packets do not carry the mass or inertia that melee weapons do. If struck in the head or groin packets will still count as valid. Players who target these areas should expect disciplinary measures.

In the event of any incidental / accidental illegal contact briefly pause to ensure the health and safety of fellow players.

## Speed of Combat
Combat itself moves quickly but also involves doing some level of math and discussion. It is important to be clear with other players about what is happening. Blitzing someone with calls will cause more confusion than clear concise calls paced steadily. Limit your swings to one swing per second per weapon (Don't swing faster than your calls.) You can only swing as fast as you make intelligible calls (Complete your call clearly before swinging again.) 

## Charging
Charging refers to a player's proximity to another player in melee combat. In combat, combatants should never be inside the physical reach another combatant. Combatants should not be able to make skin to skin contact.

Charging unfairly prevents one combatant from attacking their combat partner.
Charging can prevent a combatant from being able to attack safely and can result in players being struck in illegal strike zones or injuries to areas such as the eyes.
Charging forces one combatant to backpedal or retreat. We often play on uneven ground and this could result in a player tripping and sustaining injuries.

## Fighting in Tight Settings
We need to be mindful of our setting when engaging in combat. This is especially true if we are inside fighting around a wall or trying to engage in narrow spaces between buildings. If you can't see your target, don't swing. If there are things on the wall near you, bring it to the attention of other players and move the combat elsewhere. 

## Trapping
A weapon may never be used to entrap or immobilize an opponent's weapon. This does not prohibit impediment of another player's weapon (parrying, blocking, etc).

## Turtling
Turtling is the act of occluding all valid strike zones, while in melee combat, from an opponent through the combined use of a shield and/or other objects. This includes contorting behind a shield, standing across a table from an opponent, and shielding your top half. An opponent should have at least one option to strike you without engaging in unsafe behavior.

## Weapon on Weapon
If in the course of a swing your weapon touches your opponent's weapon before it contacts your opponents strike zones, it is considered blocked.

## Weapon Safety Checks
Weapon safety checks will be administered by marshals at check-in. They are feeling for weakened/broken down foam and inspecting weapon cores for integrity. Marshals are charged with the safety of the game and its players and have the final say. If none of your weapon reps pass the safety check, you may speak with staff about borrowing a rep from NPC Camp.  Repeatedly borrowing reps from NPC Camp will result in fees charged in gold.


## Headbands
### Orange Headbands - Non Combatants & Pages
Pages are people that are unable to enter combat.  They may be children or adults, although any child under age 14 must be a Page.  Pages may not use combat skills, weapons, or throw packets.

**You may not ever physically strike a Page.**  If you engage in combat with a page, you may point your weapon or packet and say, "Page, I kill you."  They cannot participate in combat.  They are treated as if they have 1 body.

### White Headbands - Out of Game
Once you arrive on site, you are entering an In Game Area.  If you are not in game as your character yet, you must have a white headband on.  If you do not have a white headband, you may request one from staff.  If there are none available, you may signify your out of game status by holding a hand to your forehead or touching the top of your head with a held item.  This gesture is accepted as an out of character signal and frequently used by NPCs when not in game.

If you are in game, you should not react or speak to anyone that is wearing a white headband without first going out of game yourself.  It is generally seen as poor etiquette to break the environment for others.

When your character dies and your dying count has expired, after dropping all in game items, you should put on a white headband and go to Logistics/NPC Camp to register your death.  Your spirit cannot interact in any manner with others.


## Communication is Your Greatest Weapon
A lot of communication happens to make this game run. Some spells have longer incantations so that monsters and players can see the wind up. Chances are if a player is attempting to affect another player or npc they will need to project clearly. If you are unsure of what just happened in combat, ask questions!  Ideally, this is done quietly with your combat partner or someone nearby to not disrupt the game environment.  In the heat of combat, it is not uncommon for someone to place a hand on their head to signify an out of character moment and then ask for clarification. Most will happily explain or repeat. This is because, universally, players can only take the effects they are aware of.

## "Lay on!"
This is the call from STAFF that the game is beginning to move after some situation in which there has been a pause. It's not uncommon to hear this after a scene is verbally set by staff, or a rules question has derailed more than a couple people.

## Hold!
Someone shouting "HOLD!" is the specific agreed-upon signal for all combat and gameplay to stop, it is important that you do not move your feet when this happens. Anyone can call a hold. Players, unless they are no longer able to call hold, should only call holds for themselves. When they are fit to do so, they will be the one to resume play by calling "Lay On!" as described above.

When this happens you need to pay attention to what is going on around you. Stop all activity, movement, and be silent unless directed otherwise.  Do not move, "step out of the way", or kneel down, because you never know when a hold was called because someone's glasses are in danger of being crushed.

This call is the signal that someone is in a precarious position, or possibly hurt. Let the folks with first-aid training get through. While it is rare that this call gets made, it does happen. 

Staff may also call a hold to narrate or describe a scene, or things happening to/around your character.

To that end: Avoid in-character/game interactions where you loudly shout "HOLD."  "Desist," "Stop," and "Proceed no further," convey the same message and do not cause the game to grind to a halt. Asking someone lowly to "hold this for safe keeping," or asking if you can "hold a meeting" are fine. "HOLD," said at a certain volume and urgency are the signs to stop, and make sure everyone is okay before play resumes only when staff declares "Lay on!"

## Medic v Healer
If you hear anyone call "Medic" you must immediately stop all activity, movement, and be silent unless directed otherwise.  If you are physically able to, drop to one knee.  **These calls indicate an Out of Game emergency.**  Please do not call "Medic" unless you or someone else is injured in real life.

Only the persons who have been identified as a Medic by staff should respond to the call of "Medic."  A Medic is an individual with CPR and/or First Aid certification or has a license to practice medicine.  

Medic = A real-life person is physically injured.
> In the event that my adventuring partner is wounded in glorious combat against a horde of mice, I call for a "Healer!"

Healer = You need to restore Body or health points.
> In the event that my friend Jon has twisted his ankle badly, Jon should call for a "Medic!"  Do not call Medic for someone else unless they are unable to do so.

This is an important distinction, and if there is any confusion please ask someone to explain further.
