# Fighter Skillset

---
|Skill Costs|Primary|Secondary|Tertiary|
|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|
|One-Handed Proficiency|10+2|10+5|10+10|
|Off-Handed Proficiency|10+2|10+5|10+10|
|Ranged Proficiency|10+2|10+5|10+10|
|Two-Handed Proficiency|10+2|10+5|10+10|
|Armor Training|3+1|3+2|3+3|
|Shield|3|5|8|
|Stamina Points|5+3|5+5|20+10|
|Toughness|3+3|3+4|3+5|


## **Weapon Proficiencies**
Proficiencies may use any melee proficiency for any melee weapon, for either hand.<br>
>Example: Atilla the Fighter spends 20 Stamina Points for two "One-handed Proficiencies". Atilla may use their +2 damage with any longsword, claw, two-handed sword, polearm, etc. (Everything but a bow or thrown.)

Two-Handed Weapons receive 1.5x (rounded down) benefit from Proficiencies.
>Example:  Bran spends 20 Stamina Points for 2x Two-handed Weapon Proficiencies. He can now swing his Two-handed Sword for +3 damage.|

|Two-handed Weapon Profs|Damage Increase|
|---|---|
|1|	+1 Damage|
|2|	+3 Damage|
|3|	+3 Damage|
|4|	+6 Damage|
|5|	+6 Damage|
|6|	+9 Damage|
|7|	+9 Damage|
|8|	+12 Damage|
|9|	+12 Damage|
|10| +15 Damage|


## One-Handed Proficiency
>This skill allows the character to use one hand weapon between 24" long and less than 48" long in melee combat.  One-Handed weapons include short swords, short axes, short hammer, short club, long swords, rapier, battleaxe, warhammer, warmace, spear, and club.  This skill allows the use of the weapon in either hand, but not the ability to wield a One-Handed Weapon in both hands at once.

## Off-Handed Proficiency
>This skill allows the character to wield two One-Handed Weapons, one in each hand, while in combat. At least one weapon must be of Short Length or lower. This skill does not apply other skills or abilities to both weapon hands. <br/>Requires the One-Handed Weapon skill.

## Ranged Proficiency
>This skill allows the character to use a ranged weapon in combat. Ranged weapons include bow, crossbow, and throwing weapons. Bows and crossbows may be used to block attacks, but must be restrung prior to continued use.

## Two-Handed Proficiency
>The character may use a two-handed weapon between 48" long and 72" long in melee combat. Two-Handed weapons include two-handed swords, polearms, staves, and two-handed clubs. Two-handed weapons require both hands to be on the weapon in order to attack or block in melee combat. If the character blocks an attack with only one hand, the character will take the damage as if they had not blocked the attack at all.

## Armor Training
>This skill adds 5 points of maximum armor to the character for each time that this skill is purchased. Armor above certain thresholds must be properly phys-repped. This skill is not blocked by resting.  Armor stacks with the 5 points of Armor every character gets by default.

## Shield
>This skill allows the character to wield a shield used to block attacks. A shield may never be used for striking in combat. As long as the character has either hand on a shield, any physical type attack that comes into contact with the shield is considered effectively blocked.  The maximum surface area of a shield is 531 square inches. The longest dimension a shield may have is 36".  Shields may not be used with two-handed weapons, bows, or crossbows. A character may not dual wield shields.

## Stamina Points
> Stamina Points are purchased with Skill Points and may then be used to toward uses of Stamina Pool Abilities.  Each purchase of Stamina Points grants 10 Stamina Points. Using an ability will remove a number of Stamina Points from their pool equal to the ability's level.
>
> Characters may alternatively choose to explicitly memorize their ability list. Doing so grants a bonus 10% total Stamina Points to be distributed. The character must mark down how many of which abilities they have chosen to memorize, and they may then only use those abilities (until their next Rest).

## Toughness
> This skill adds 5 points of maximum health to the character for each time that this skill is purchased. Toughness stacks with the 10 points of Health every character gets by default.  This skill is not blocked by resting.
