# Rogue Skillset

---
|Skill Costs|Primary|Secondary|Tertiary|
|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|
|Agility Points|5+3|5+5|20+10|
|Backstab|3+3|5+5|8+10|
|Cutpurse|3|7|10|
|Escape Artist|3+1|4+1|5+2|
|Lockpicking|3+1|3+3|5+5|
|Mimicry|3+5|5+10|20+10|
|Trapping|3|6|10|


## Agility Points
> Agility Points are purchased with Skill Points and may then be used to toward uses of Agility Pool Abilities.  Each purchase of Agility Points grants 10 Agility Points. Using an ability will remove a number of Agility Points from their pool equal to the ability's level.
>
> Characters may alternatively choose to explicitly memorize their ability list. Doing so grants a bonus 10% total Agility Points to be distributed. The character must mark down how many of which abilities they have chosen to memorize, and they may then only use those abilities (until their next Rest).

## Backstab
> This skill increases damage done by weapon blows dealt to the back of a target by +2 per purchase.

## Cutpurse
>This skill is purchased once. Use of this skill requires a tool registered with staff.  The player slips the tool onto the pouch, or pocket, and goes to notify a Game Marshal. The Game Marshal will approach the picked character and retrieve one random game item from the picked character. If there is nothing in the picked pouch, then the larceny has resulted in no reward. The transfer of goods from Game Marshal to thief takes place out of sight from other players.

## Escape Artist
>This skill is purchased multiple times. Each time this skill is purchased, the character may escape from magical, or non-magical bindings by completing a 3 second count of escaping the bonds. "1 I escape binding...2 I escape binding…" This skill is refreshed each Rest.

## Lockpicking
>This skill is purchased multiple times. Each skill rank indicates the proficiency of the character in picking locks. To pick a lock, the character must provide their own draw bag and several beads in each of four colors. One color represents success (one bead). One color represents breaking the lock (one bead). One color represents that the character can continue the attempt (several beads), And one color represents resetting the bag (several beads). The base bag has 1 success, 1 break, 4 continue, 1 reset. The character's skill rank is compared to the tier of the lock. For each rank that the character's skill is under the lock, add 2 continue and 1 reset. If the character's skill is equal to, or above the lock there is no change to the bag. The character may draw from the bag every 30 seconds until success, or the lock is broken.
>
> Broken locks are jammed and can no longer be picked. A smith must repair the broken lock before the lock can be picked again.

## Mimicry
> This skill allows the user to use any single Spell or Stamina ability once per purchase of Mimicry.  The user must additionally expend a number of Agility Points equal to double the mimicked ability's Mana or Stamina cost, as appropriate.  Mimicry cannot be used on level 10 Spells.  Use requires the verbal:  My turn!  <ability verbal/incant>

## Trapping
>This skill is purchased once. Trapping allows the character the chance to set a trap using the in-game trap tag, trap physical representation, and trap trigger. Setting a trap takes as long as it actually takes to set the trap. Trapping also allows the character to attempt to disarm a set trap using out of game and in-game tools. The character must actually disarm the trigger of the trap, and do so without destroying the trigger. Most disarmed traps can be saved for later use.
