# Mage Skillset

---
| Skill | Primary | Secondary | Tertiary |
|---|---|---|---|
|Primary Initiation|3|4|5|
|Secondary Initiation|4|10|10|
|Tertiary Initiation|5|15|30|
|Attunement|3+1|5+5|10+10|

## Primary Initiation  
This skill allows a character to be initiated into a school of magic, allowing them to allocate mana points to that school or memorize spells from that school each Rest. This skill may be purchased once for each school of magic (Arcane, Nature, Spirit).

## Secondary Initiation  
This skill allows a character to be initiated into a school of magic, allowing them to allocate mana points to that school or memorize spells from that school each Rest. This skill may be purchased once for each school of magic (Arcane, Nature, Spirit).

## Tertiary Initiation  
This skill allows a character to be initiated into a school of magic, allowing them to allocate mana points to that school or memorize spells from that school each Rest. This skill may be purchased once for each school of magic (Arcane, Nature, Spirit).

## Attunement  
Increases the character's Mana Pool by 10 points. Mana Points are expended to cast spells. Mana Pool Points are refreshed upon a successful Rest. Characters may choose to memorize their spell list, which grants a bonus of 10% more mana points.  Memorization can be done per Rest and requires pre-allocating mana to spells and the number of times they can cast those spells.  Memorization requires notating these selections on a battle-board.

## Casting Method
When you check in a character for an event you can choose between packet throwing and spellstiking as your preferred magic delivery method.  You cannot switch between methods without plot's permission.  You may have certain magic items or transform abilities that use the alternate method.

## Spellstrikes
Spellstrikes are spells cast upon a target via a physically represented weapon. Spellstrikes may not be refused in the way touch casts can.Defenses for spells such as Spell Mirror, Intercept, and Parry Spell are effective against Spellstrikes. The Parry skill will not block the spell of a Spellstrike. If a player physically parries a Spellstrike, they take the effect of the spell. An individual capable of using Spellstrike may treat wielded weapons as a spell packet for the purposes of touch-casting. Packets may not be used to Spellstrike.  A player must be proficient in the weapon they are using to Spellstrike.