# Ritual Magic


## About Ritual Magic

---
Ritual Magic is the way through which an individual attempts to weave the powers of themselves or greater beings to affect incredible and often long-lasting effects upon the world. A ritualist is someone who is trained in these magics and in the art of channeling them to achieve their desired goals. Purchasing the Ritual Magic Skill enables the user to perform rituals.

A ritual is the act through which a ritualist attempts to conduct these magics, and each ritualist's method for enacting a ritual is different, though there are a few generally agreed upon elements that must be achieved in order for a ritual to succeed. Firstly, a ritual must last at least 5 minutes in order for success to be achieved. It has been said that in times of great need a ritualist can attempt to end the ritual earlier than this, but they risk failure at best, horrible backlash at worst. Secondly, a ritual must contain a persistent visual or auditory element. Some ritualists chant, sing, or recite scripture of their Deity. Others may choose to draw or cast runes, dance, or create art as a focus for their magic. All that matters is that these elements are consistent throughout the ritual, without long lapses or interruptions. Third, the ritualist must provide a source of power other than their own for the ritual, often in the form of Spirit Gems, a number of which must be provided equal to the level of the ritual. Lastly, and most importantly, the ritualist must have the ritual scroll open and accessible to them at all times during the ritual, even if they do not need to actively gaze upon it. If the ritual scroll is not present, or if during the ritual it is removed or hidden from the ritualist, the ritual will fail. These four elements are commonly referred to as the "fundamental four elements" of rituals, without which a ritual is all but doomed to failure.

There are other ways through which a ritualist may enhance their casting and thus the odds of success. A few of the more commonly accepted methods are as follows. First, the inclusion of further ritual props, themed appropriately for the ritual being attempted, though some rituals may require specific props to be present to even be cast at all. Secondary ritualists who can aid in the focusing and channeling of the magic, and even non-ritualists whose nature or actions are particularly in-tune with the desired outcome of the ritual may aid in its success. Some ritualists opine that at their core, rituals are a performance for the gods, and as such, the more devoted the casters are to providing a grand spectacle, the more likely the gods are to look upon their attempts with favor and grant their desires. Conversely, if the participants in the ritual are clearly out of sync, under prepared, or otherwise break the flow of the ritual, the Gods are more likely to punish the attempt.

There exists for ritualists a "standard library" of rituals, of which all ritualists have access to at all times, as they are capable of producing a new scroll for these rituals from memory. Rituals outside of this library must be acquired through diligent research or through discovery in the world at large. scrolls for rituals outside the standard library may have the potential to be memorized or even taught, with each scroll indicating how many times, if at all, it may be memorized, and subsequently if it can be taught and how often. Once memorized, a scroll is considered part of that ritualist's standard library. If a ritual is not part of the ritualist's standard library, they must have the exact scroll to perform the ritual, and this must be shown to Plot before the ritual can begin. If a ritualist wishes to memorize a scroll, they must do so by showing the scroll to Plot, so Plot can note their character sheet and the scroll appropriately. For any ritual in the standard library, a ritualist must still have a scroll representation during the ritual, following all normal rules, they simply do not need the tagged scroll item.

For base standard library (not memorized) rituals, only the fundamental four elements need to be achieved in order to guarantee success. For all others, it is recommended that further aspects be added, as with each increase in a ritual's level, the odds of success decrease. It is claimed that a ritualist who attempts to cast a ritual using only the fundamental four elements, they have at best a 60% chance of success. Use of props, secondary casters, or other participants can help increase these odds. Similarly, poor performance, inappropriate props or participants, or disjointed or disharmonic casting may decrease the odds of success, and invite potential backlash.

A ritual has 4 possible outcomes:
* Success - This indicates that the ritual has succeeded as intended, and the desired effect has been achieved without further incident.
* Flaw - This means that the ritual has completed, but often with a side effect of some kind, with varying degrees of severity.
* Failure - This indicates that the ritual failed, with no further effects, but any spirit gems or other consumable materials used in the ritual are still consumed.
* Backlash - This indicates that the ritual not only failed, but a severe negative effect has occurred, up to and including death of the caster or participants.  Any spirit gems or materials are still consumed.

Following are the standard library, and other rituals for which the scroll must be discovered or re-invented.

## Standard Library

---
### Ritual Level I

#### Elemental Shift
This ritual augments "Mana Bolt" for an arcane magic user at every level with one of either:
 * Flame Bolt - "I conjure a flame bolt &lt;number>."
 * Frost Bolt - "I conjure a frost bolt &lt;number>."
 * Shock Bolt - "I conjure a shock bolt &lt;number>."
 * Stone Bolt - "I conjure a stone bolt &lt;number>."

The target of this ritual chooses the element at the end of the ritual casting. This change is permanent until this ritual is once again cast on the target at which time a different element may be selected. This ritual requires that the ritualist use a physical representation for each of the four elements: Fire, Air, Water, and Earth.

#### Create Spirit Familiar
This ritual siphons off a portion of the character's spirit, creating the physical form of a spirit familiar. The form of the spirit familiar is left up to the player with the final approval of the plot team. Once the ritual is complete, the spirit familiar will take shape and be with the character at all times. The spirit familiar is visible to everyone, is not recognizable as a spirit familiar, but can be identified as one.  Spirit familiars cannot be affected by any form of attack and cannot be used as a shield.  This ritual requires that the target character have a pre-approved physical representation of their spirit familiar with them in the ritual.

### Ritual Level II

#### Dampen Magic
The caster attempts to extend their will to create an area that prevents the use of or casting of ritual magic - except for Destroy Ritual Magic.  If successful, the area will have a radius of 100ft that persists for 1 hour.  May only be destroyed by a Destroy Ritual Magic ritual.

### Ritual Level III

#### Race Change
The caster specifies a target to reshape into the race chosen by the caster. If the ritual succeeds, the target is changed to the targeted race and gains the racial traits of the selected race, whilst losing those of the previous race.

#### Purify/Corrupt The Land
The caster reaches out to the surrounding environment and attempts to either restore it to its natural state or corrupt it into an inherently damaging state.

### Ritual Level IV

#### Spirit Journey
 This ritual allows the target to seek out information or ask a question of the spirit realm. They will experience a vision quest related to that topic. The source of the vision may be their own subconsciousness, tribal ancestors, spirit guides, or other metaphysical sources as appropriate for the performance of the ritual. The events of the journey are not guaranteed to be truthful; The spirits may be fickle, capricious, or even simply out of touch with the physical reality of Evren. 

#### Spirit Link
This ritual allows an individual to bond with an item. The ritual is cast upon the item. Bonding with an item requires completing a full Rest with possession of the item, which will link the item to the person who rested with it and break any other links the item may have had. The spirit linked item may be passed off to another individual if both individuals complete a rest together.  Other than via changing the bond with a Rest, the spirit linked item cannot be removed from the individual and will stay with the individual even through death and resurrection.
    
#### Spirit Lock
This ritual forms a permanent bond between a specific item and a target individual. This bond transcends the physical realm, ensuring that no matter where the individual may go, the item will always follow. As long as the item endures, it is locked to the target, unable to be stolen, given away, or even used by another individual. If the target should die and their spirit departs to seek resurrection, the item will follow them. This does not grant any extra resilience for the item, and the effect will fade if the item is destroyed or expires. If the individual somehow becomes incapable of possessing the item (ex: permanent death), the item is destroyed immediately.

#### Magical Barrier
This ritual is designed to imbue the participants with additional magical shielding. Each target that actively participates in the casting of the ritual gains a single use of Resist Magic that lasts for one day or until used. This defensive is subject to an available Defensive Slot.

### Ritual Level V

#### Spirit Forge
The caster reaches into the very essence of the target and gives the target a glimpse into the infinite multitude of possibilities posed by their history and growth. This spell allows the target to instantly choose to change their chosen skillsets and re-assign all assigned Skill Points they possess.

### Ritual Level VI

#### ?

### Ritual Level VIII

#### Destroy Ritual Magic
The caster attempts to focus their mastery of ritual magic in order to destroy any ritual magic effect. The difficulty of this spell is variable based on the level of the effect the caster is attempting to destroy. It is highly recommended that anyone undertaking this ritual prepare thoroughly and do everything in their power to boost their chance of success, as any magic that might require such an intervention is likely to prove difficult to destroy.

### Ritual Level IX

##### ?

### Ritual Level X

#### Empower Spirit
The ritualist empowers a character with grand energies of might and magic. This ritual channels the energies of the consumed spirit gems directly into the target character, granting them incredible resilience to face an upcoming challenge. The target gains 2x Resist Physical and 2x Resist Spell, and an intangible suit of 50 armor that cannot be refit by any means, but stacks over any worn armor and bypasses normal armor caps. These last for 1 day, until expended, or the target resurrects. A character may be empowered in this way no more than once per week.

## Uncommon Rituals

### Ritual Level I

#### ?

### Ritual Level II

#### ?

### Ritual Level III

#### ?

### Ritual Level IV

#### ?
 
### Ritual Level V

#### Spirit Familiar Transformation
This ritual is designed to help the target physically adopt the appearance of the form specified on the ritual scroll.  After the ritual has been cast, the target will be provided a list of available transform abilities they can choose to pursue.

### Ritual Level VI

#### Summon Entity
This ritual is designed for a caster to attempt to call forth a targeted entity type, such as a creature.  After the ritual has been cast, the targeted entity type is immediately rifted into the area.  This ritual provides no specific protections or controls on the summoned target and does not return the target to their origin.

### Ritual Level VII
#### ?

### Ritual Level VIII
#### ?

### Ritual Level IX
#### ?

### Ritual Level X
#### ?

### Variable Level 
#### Curse of Transformation: \<Creature\>
Applies a Curse of Transformation to the target, transforming them into the named creature. The Curse of Transformation will last until the target dies and dissipates (seeks resurrection or reforms at their Spirit Bottle) or is affected by a Destroy Ritual Magic, unless otherwise stated by the stat card provided.  The effects of Transformation are plot discretion.  Upon receiving a Curse of Transformation, the target will be given a stat card for the effects and abilities they will receive. Curse of Transformations are often more powerful than a newly-acquired transformations of the same creature, but carry significantly more risk due to their impermanence and increased chance of death. 
 
