# Resting

## Resetting Skills and Magic Items

---
Adventurers are powerful individuals who rely on magic and skill to defeat their enemies. This expenditure of endurance both physically and magically takes a toll on even the most mighty of heroes on Evren. Even the most powerful of artifacts requires time to recharge its stores. 

There are two ways skills and magic items can be recharged and used again:  Rest or Per Day.

## Rest
Rest is a short period of time that the character takes to relax and recharge their personal Aether stores of energy required to use the magic and martial skills that the character has learned. A Rest takes 10 minutes, and a character can only rest 3 times during a standard event (more rests may be given during an extended event). A player may not initiate a Rest within two hours of the completion of their previous Rest. A player may also choose to NPC during their character's Rest Time for more game rewards!

Resting requires that the character take a break from adventuring for a period of time. During Rest, the character may not use skills, and may not run. If the character does any of these things the Rest ends. The character is focused on letting their body absorb the ambient Aether in the area to restore their energy.

Resting can be stopped by the character at any time. If the character's health pool is damaged, or if the character suffers death, the Rest will also be stopped. Once the Rest is stopped, the character must restart the Rest from the beginning.

Once the Rest is complete, the character will have all their Magic Spell and Martial Skills returned to them for another use. Any effects that have a duration of Rest become expired on the character.  A character may Rest up to 3 times an event.  

## Per Day

---
Magic items, production skills, and some effects recharge or expire at the end of the day. This time occurs at 6pm (out of game) each day. This happens automatically and is not considered a Rest period.
