# Inventory: Coins, Tags, and Loot

## Looting
A player may approach a fallen NPC and say, “I search you.” If the monster has any loot to give, it will provide it. NPCs may also drop loot on the ground. If you find a coin, or tag on the ground, feel free to pick it up. (Be aware that looting other player’s kills may be seen unfavorably especially if you’re not contributing to combat. This is a reasonable arrangement to ask another player about in character.)
## Loot
Loot comes in a few shapes, the most common being money, tags, and reps. Coins are imprinted metal slugs only of value to this game, or cast resin shapes. Tags are business cards with print on them. Reps are physical representations of things in the game world-- these vary widely as they are often devices to ongoing plots, but can also just be as they are presented.
## Money
Money comes in two forms in Varos. A golden coin minted by the kingdom, or as a naturally occurring impure crystalline mana. Mana crystals have resin cast phys reps. Players are free to exchange coins in whatever fashion they wish and game events can cause the “market” to fluctuate. The value of items is determined by denizens of the world (this includes you).
## Tags
Tags are the inventory items of Evren. These are functionally the items they say they are. A “Cure Wounds Potion” tag is effectively the bottle and its contents, though players are free to represent those items to encourage aesthetics and roleplay. If you use an item, be prepared for staff to ask that you present the tag for it as possession of the tag is possession of the item. Any extra info about the item apparent to you should be presented on the tag (ie. Incants for use, durability, effect, tier value, number of uses, etc.). In the case of armor and weapons, it falls to the player to rep the item, and more information on specifications can be found in the Equipment Section.
## Durability
Some items have limited uses. This is represented by a durability rating. If you anticipate you’re going to use an item with durability over the market faire be sure to get it stamped during check-in by staff to track its durability.