# Smithing

## Smithing Products

### Tier I
#### Alarm Trap
>This creates a trap that can be placed next to a doorway, or the opening to a box. The rune, once activated, will make a loud alarming sound. The trap must have a trigger and a tripwire, or equivalent that will set off the trigger. Alarm traps may be disarmed as they are a tier I trap. Activating an alarm trap requires simply placing the trap rep, the trigger, the trip wire, and the character says "Activate Alarm Trap". This item is consumed on use.
#### Key
>This recipe allows the Smith to create a key that is keyed for a particular lock by an ID code that both the key and the lock share. Keys will only work for the lock that they are keyed for. To make a Key for a lock, you must bring the lock to Logistics.
#### Lock
>This recipe allows the Smith to create a lock able to keep out unskilled burglars. Lock physical representations are attached to the main door of a structure. This lock indicates that all portals are locked. The tag for the lock will be attached to the back of the lock presentation, and will note the quality of the lock as well as the lock ID code. To be able to enter a locked structure, a character must have a key tag that is ID associated with the lock. A character with a key may unlock a locked door on a 3 count, and may re-lock it on another 3 count. The rating of this lock is 1. This has 5 Durability.
#### Parrying Dagger
>This recipe creates a Parrying Dagger with 5 Durability.  Parrying daggers may only be used for physically blocking weapons and for Killing Blows.  These items may be effected by Rusty Weapon or Silver Weapon Forging, which would impact Killing Blows.
#### Rusty Weapon
>This process intentionally rusts the weapon to make it inflict foul wounds upon those it strikes. This changes the base damage type of the weapon to Poison, at the cost of reducing its Durability by 2. A Rusty Weapon cannot be Silvered.


### Tier II

#### Armor Resizing Kit
>This kit has everything a blacksmith needs to adjust suits of armor to better suit their needs. A Smith using this kit may increase an existing suit of armor's value rating by spending additional resources equal to the difference between the current value and the desired value, as if you were making a new Suit of Armor. This does not change the durability of the armor. This has 5 charges.
#### Lockpicks
>This is a basic item for use with the Lockpicking skill. Having lockpicks lowers the rating of the lock by 1. Lockpicks have 10 charges.
#### Suit of Armor
>This creates a finely made suit of armor that has an Armor rating of 10, with 5 Durability. You can increase the Tier of the recipe and the cost in materials by 1 to increase the Armor Rating by 10, up to a max of 80.


### Tier III

#### Hardening
   >This will harden a weapon, shield, armor or magic item to Resist Destruction once. An item may only be Hardened up to three times (For a maximum of 3 Resist Destroys) May be applied to untagged items. (Such as Doors).
#### Knight-Night Helmet
   >This specially designed helmet for knights who have too often fell victim to physically-induced-narcolepsy. This helmet will let the wearer Minimize any Waylay effect they receive. This has 5 charges and must be repped.
#### Repair Lock
   >The smith is able to fix a previously broken lock. The repair of the lock takes 1 minute of time in addition to the three ranks of raw materials. This is not a tagged item.

### Tier IV

#### Lock Hardening
   >This recipe will harden a lock so that the lock will resist destroy effects, and be more difficult to pick. Hardening a lock will allow the lock to resist five destroy effects, and will raise the lockpicking rating of the lock by three. Hardening may only be done once on an item.
#### One-Handed Weapon
   >This creates a finely made One-Handed Weapon that has a base damage of 1, with 5 Durability.
#### Shield
   >This creates a finely made Shield, with 5 Durability.

### Tier V

#### Silver Weapon Forging
   >With this skill the blacksmith can carefully silver plate a weapon in order for the weapon to do to the silver damage type. This can be done at time of creation or to an already existing weapon.
#### Two-Handed Weapon
   >This creates a finely made Two-Handed Weapon that has a base damage of 1, with 5 Durability.
#### Whetstone 
   >A character can spend 1 minute of careful sharpening using this tool to improve a single weapon's base damage by 1 for 5 days. This process however shortens the item's lifespan, reducing its durability by 1. If this would reduce the durability to 0, the item is destroyed. This item cannot stack with similar effects. This item does not work on Unarmed or Claws. This item is consumed on use.

### Tier VI

#### Golem Repair Kit
> The kit that has everything a golemancer needs to keep their mechanical servants going. The character may expend a charge from this kit and spends 1 minute of roleplay to fully restore the body of a golem they are in contact with. Acts as per Regenerate on a golem. This is consumed on use.
#### Pick Pocket Tools
   >These tools require the Cutpurse skill to use. These tools allow the would-be thief to slip a hand into another character pouch or pocket and randomly take a single game item. This item is represented by a clip that has an ID that corresponds to the character. This ID is issued by Logistics, though a player can request a new ID at any time. The player slips the clip onto the pouch, or pocket, and goes to notify a Game Marshal. The Game Marshal will approach the picked character and retrieve one random game item from the picked character. If there is nothing in the picked pouch, then the larceny has resulted in no reward. The transfer of goods from Game Marshal to thief takes place out of sight from other players.  Tools have 10 charges.
#### Ranged Weapon
   >This creates a finely made Ranged Weapon that has a base damage of 1, with 5 Durability. 
   
### Tier VII

#### Resistant Plating 
   >This armor plating is specially designed to help absorb an otherwise direct blow, shrugging off the effects at the cost of the brittle material. This plating can be applied to a suit of armor with 1 minute of roleplay. Depending on how the character chooses to configure it upon application, it can grant them a single use of Resist Physical or Spell. A suit of armor can only have one Resistant Plating applied at a time. This takes a defense slot. This item is consumed on use.
#### Reinforcement Kit
>This kit helps prepare the character for imminent destruction by providing them with several small tools that when quickly applied can help prevent an item from being destroyed. This can be prepared with 1 Minute of roleplay. It grants the character a single use of Resist Destruction, that lasts until Rest. An individual may only have one Reinforcement Kit active on it at time. This item is consumed on use. This does not take a defense slot.
#### Weighted Ammunition
   >This specially designed item is made from very dense materials, and is made to blow past enemy defenses to really hit them where it hurts. This ammunition can either be fired from a Ranged Weapon or used as a Thrown Weapon. While it carries a heavy impact, the design means that its unwieldy nature makes it difficult to use with precision. Using this ammunition will deal 5 Normal Vital damage, this damage call cannot be modified any means. This item is consumed on use.

### Tier VIII

#### Expandable Weapon
> A marvel of intricate crafting, this weapon modification is designed to allow the wielder the ultimate flexibility in controlling their reach. With 1 minute of roleplay, the wielder may change the length of this weapon, from up to a Two-Handed weapon down to a Short length one-handed weapon. This allows the wielder to use this item with a Short, Long, or Two-Handed weapon rep interchangeably. This cannot be applied to Unarmed or Claws.
#### Recycling Kit
> This kit is designed to assist in helping a Recycler be more efficient with their reclamation of materials. When a kit is made, a single Crafting Type is chosen from Alchemy, Smithing or Rune Carving. When the character recycles an item from that type, they may expend a charge from this kit to recover 1/2 of the ranks in materials used to construct it, rounded down to a minimum of one, instead of the usual 1/3. In the case of Recycling an Artificing item, the character only benefits from this increase for the materials of the chosen type, though multiple kits may be used in tandem. Ex: If an item required all three material types, and you use an Alchemy Recycling Kit and a Smithing Recycling Kit, you'd get 1/2 of those materials, but only 1/3 of the Rune Carving materials. This item has 3 charges.
#### Trickle Blade Modification
> This modification can be applied to any weapon, adding a reservoir and specially treated channels to the weapon that allow Toxins to flow along the edge of the blade. The wielder of this blade may apply Ingestible Toxins to this as if they were Weapon Coatings.



### Tier IX

#### Armor Repair Kit
   >This small kit has everything an individual needs to help fix all dents, scratches, tears, breaks, and other mishaps! This kit will let the character, on a 3 second count, refit an armor to its full value upon use. It has no effect on destroyed armor. This functions as per Rapid Refit. This item is consumed on use.
#### Forgemaster's Hammer
> An item that indicates the creator is nearing true Mastery, this marvel of smithing ingenuity is the key tool in the ongoing battle against wear and tear. The character may restore a Destroyed Item within 5 minutes of its destruction by declaring "Reforge". This process is not without consequence, and the item loses 2 Durability. An Item with 2 or less Durability cannot benefit from this effect. This item is consumed on use.
#### Risky Smithing
   >Daring to push the boundaries of their craft, this technique is reserved for those with more skill than sense. By pushing their skill to the limit, this technique can grant a weapon, shield or armor of any quality an Enchantment slot. This will give a slot to a non-Masterwork item, or increase the maximum for a Masterwork item by one. However, this does not come without cost, and cuts the item's maximum durability in half, rounded down. This can be applied to the same item multiple times, but if it would reduce the durability to 0, or below the item's remaining durability, the item is destroyed. This cannot be applied to Destroyed items.

### Tier X

#### Masterwork Armor
   >This armor represents the peak of a Smith's skill. A suit of Masterwork Armor can be of any value, and has 10 Durability. Furthermore, this Armor is capable of possessing two Enchantments, created by an Artificer. Once Enchanted, the Enchantments cannot be removed.
#### Masterwork Shield
   >This Shield represents the peak of a Smith's skill. A Masterwork Shield has 10 Durability. Furthermore, this Shield is capable of possessing two Enchantments, created by an Artificer. Once Enchanted, the Enchantments cannot be removed.
#### Masterwork Weapon
   >This weapon represents the peak of a Smith's skill. A Masterwork Weapon can be of any type, and has 10 Durability. Furthermore, this Weapon is capable of possessing two Enchantments, created by an Artificer. Once Enchanted, the Enchantments cannot be removed.
