
# Other Skills
|Skill|F|T|R|M|Prereqs|
|:---|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---|
|Cutpurse|10|10|3|10||
|Escape Artist|5+2|5+2|3+1|3+1||
|First Aid|4|4|4|4||
|Lockpicking|5+5|5+5|3+1|3+3||
|Tracking|20|20|20|20||
|Trapping|10|10|3|6||

## Miscellaneous Skills

---
#### First Aid
>This skill is purchased once. First Aid allows the character to provide emergency aid to a dying character. The character using First Aid will touch the downed character and say "Performing First Aid". While First Aid is being applied, the dying count of the targeted character stops. First Aid takes a base time of 1 minute to apply. Other in-game tools can lessen this time. The character rendering First Aid is under concentration while providing the First Aid. Once the 1 minute is complete for First Aid, the downed character's body is restored to 1.
> 
>This skill also allows a character to touch a downed or seemingly disabled character and ask, "First Aid, what do I see?"  If the character is under an effect that can be diagnosed by first aid, or is a visible effect, the player may reply with the specific effect ("Are you Dead", "Are you Bleeding Out", "Are you reviving", etc).  The character may also ask how long a countdown remains on first aid or visible effects ("How long until you dissipate", "How long until you're dead", etc).  The character cannot ask how long the timer was, just its current time left).  
>
>The following statuses can be determined with first aid.  First aid can determine the countdown timer on statuses that are diagnosed with physical effects or first aid.
>
|First Aid|
|:---:|
|Bleed Out/Dying|
|Blinded|
|Conscious|
|Dead|
|Drained|
|Inert|
|Preserved|
|Reviving|
|Silence|
|Sleep|
|Unconscious|



#### Escape Artist
>This skill is purchased multiple times. Each time this skill is purchased, the character may escape from magical, or non-magical bindings by completing a 3 second count of escaping the bonds. "1 I escape binding...2 I escape binding…" This skill is refreshed each Rest.

#### Trapping
 >This skill is purchased once. Trapping allows the character the chance to set a trap using the in-game trap tag, trap physical representation, and trap trigger. Setting a trap takes as long as it actually takes to set the trap. Trapping also allows the character to attempt to disarm a set trap using out of game and in-game tools. The character must actually disarm the trigger of the trap, and do so without destroying the trigger. Most disarmed traps can be saved for later use.

#### Lockpicking
>This skill is purchased multiple times. Each skill rank indicates the proficiency of the character in picking locks. To pick a lock, the character must provide their own draw bag and several beads in each of four colors. One color represents success (one bead). One color represents breaking the lock (one bead). One color represents that the character can continue the attempt (several beads), And one color represents resetting the bag (several beads). The base bag has 1 success, 1 break, 4 continue, 1 reset. The character's skill rank is compared to the tier of the lock. For each rank that the character's skill is under the lock, add 2 continue and 1 reset. If the character's skill is equal to, or above the lock there is no change to the bag. The character may draw from the bag every 30 seconds until success, or the lock is broken.
> 
> Broken locks are jammed and can no longer be picked. A tinkerer must repair the broken lock before the lock can be picked again. This repair is a tier III skill requiring 3 tinkering materials. Repairing a broken lock takes 1 minute.

#### Cutpurse
>This skill is purchased once. Cutpurse skill requires the use of Pick Pocket Tools from Tinkering. The player slips the tool onto the pouch, or pocket, and goes to notify a Game Marshal. The Game Marshal will approach the picked character and retrieve one random game item from the picked character. If there is nothing in the picked pouch, then the larceny has resulted in no reward. The transfer of goods from Game Marshal to thief takes place out of sight from other players.

#### Tracking
>This skill is purchased once. Using this skill, the character can attempt to track a target's tracks. The target tracks are assigned a value according to weather, ground, recency, and skill of the target hiding their tracks. With all that taken in, the resulting modified track number is compared to the trackers number.
>
>Tracking can be combined with the survivalist knowledge skill to gain greater bonuses and be considered master tracker.
> 
>When a player asks to track something/someone a marshal will determine if the tracking succeeds and how much information a player gets.  PCs cannot track other PCs.
