# General Skills

---

| Skill | Primary | Secondary | Tertiary |
|---|---|---|---|
|Additional Defense Slot|10+30|||
|Dexterity Armor|5+5|||
|First Aid|4|||
|Parrying Dagger|2|||
|Ritual Magic|20|||
|Specialization|10|||
|Tracking|20|||
|Foraging|1+1|2+1|3+1|
|Logging|1+1|2+1|3+1|
|Mining|1+1|2+1|3+1|
|Alchemy|1+1|2+1|3+1|
|Rune Carving|1+1|2+1|3+1|
|Smithing|1+1|2+1|3+1|
|Artificing|20|||
|Recycling|8|||

## Additional Defense Slot  
This skill grants an additional Defense Slot which may be used to activate additional defenses.  A character may only have as many Active Defenses as they have Defensive Slots.  Any skill, ability, or effect that grants a Resist or Dodge requires a Defensive Slot to be prepared.  This includes Transforms.  All characters automatically have 1 Defense Slot for free and additional slots may be purchased with Skill Points.

## Dexterity Armor  
This skill adds 5 points of armor to the character for each time that this skill is purchased. Dexterity armor does not need to be represented by a physical representation.  Dexterity armor does not stack with any other source of armor except the 5 points of Armor every character gets by default.  This skill is not blocked by resting.  Dexterity armor take 1 minute of stretching (Concentration) to refit in which the player must roleplay stretching, yoga, etc.  Dexterity armor cannot exceed the character's Armor Training Cap.

## First Aid  
First Aid allows the character to provide emergency aid to a dying character. The character using First Aid will touch the downed character and say "Performing First Aid". While First Aid is being applied, the dying count of the targeted character stops. First Aid takes a base time of 1 minute to apply.  The character rendering First Aid is under concentration while providing the First Aid. Once the 1 minute is complete for First Aid, the downed character's body is restored to 1.

## Parrying Dagger  
This skill allows the user to wield a parrying dagger used to block attacks.   The parrying dagger may never be used for striking in combat. As long as the character is wielding the parrying dagger in one hand, any physical type attack that comes into contact with the parrying dagger is considered effectively blocked. The parrying dagger meet safety requirements of any other weapon.  The parrying dagger must be between 12"-18" in length, the handle is a maximum of 6", and the tips of the weapon must be red for easy identification.

## Ritual Magic  
This skill allows the user to access the standard ritual magic library.  More information can be found in the Ritual Magic section.

## Specialization  
When purchased, the character must specify which skillset they have mastery over. This skill allows that character to access level 10 abilities or spells.  This skill may be purchased only once.

## Tracking  
This skill is purchased once. Using this skill, the character can attempt to track a target's tracks. The target tracks are assigned a value according to weather, ground, recency, and skill of the target hiding their tracks. With all that taken in, the resulting modified track number is compared to the trackers number. Tracking can be combined with the survivalist knowledge skill to gain greater bonuses and be considered master tracker. When a player asks to track something/someone a marshal will determine if the tracking succeeds and how much information a player gets.  PCs cannot track other PCs.

## Foraging  
This skill is the is used to gather the materials for the Alchemy Skill. Foraging represents the character collecting herbs, reagents, or catalysts for use with the Alchemy skill.

## Logging  
This skill is the is used to gather the materials for the Rune Carving Skill. Logging represents the character collecting pieces of wood for use with the Rune Carving skill.

## Mining  
This skill is the is used to gather the materials for the Smithing Skill. Mining represents the character collecting raw ore for use with the Smithing skill.

## Alchemy  
This skill allows the user to alchemy carving items of a tier equal to the number of ranks purchased.

## Rune Carving  
This skill allows the user to craft rune carving items of a tier equal to the number of ranks purchased.

## Smithing  
This skill allows the user to craft smithing items of a tier equal to the number of ranks purchased.

## Artificing  
This skill allows the user to craft advanced magical items from a standard library of recipes.  This skill requires the user to have 5 ranks in every crafting skill (Alchemy, Smithing, Rune Carving).

## Recycling  
The Recycling skill allows the user to reclaim some of the raw materials used to craft an item that has been reduced to 0 Durability, been destroyed, or is an item no longer desired.  Items that are in use or activated may not be recycled.  Recycling returns 1/3rd of the materials used to construct it, rounded down to a minimum of one. These materials can either be claimed for future use or utilized immediately in the construction of a new item. This may not be used on consumable items.


## Gathering and Crafting

### Raw Materials
>Production materials are tiered I-V, and X. Characters with a gathering skill will be rewarded two ranks of raw material for each rank of gathering skill that they possess, per day of the event. Additional raw materials can be bargained for from NPCs or other players. Characters will also rarely get the opportunity to gather additional materials during mods.
>
> Ex: Vinnie has 7 ranks in Logging, and 2 ranks in Mining. He is attending a 2 Day event. He will receive 28 Ranks of Logging Materials (7 x 2 Ranks, 14 Ranks Per Day, for 2 days.) and 8 Ranks of Mining Materials (2 x 2 Ranks, 4 Ranks Per Day, for 2 Days).
>
>Prior to an event starting, you can spend your raw material ranks, along with any raw material tags that you have, to craft in-game items. Once you are done crafting items before the game starts, logistics will give you tags for any unspent raw materials as well as tags for the items that you produced. When you get your raw material tags, you can request to get them in any rank I-X, as long as the total ranks are equal to the unspent ranks that you have left.

### Producing Items
>Production items are set in Tiers from I-X. It takes as many raw materials ranks to make a single item equal to the production item's tier.  Production items are ranked I-X and raw materials are only ranked I-V, and then X; how do I get VI-IX raw materials? The answer to that is to combine the I-V raw materials to equal the tier of the production item that you are making.
>
>Ex:  To make an Alchemy Tier I item, the character needs to have at least one rank in the Alchemy skill and would use a single Tier I material. 
>
> To make a Smithing Rank 8 item, the character would need at least 8 Ranks in Smithing and could use one Rank V material and three Rank I materials.

### Durability
>Any item that is non-consumable has a Durability rating. An item's durability is reduced by one at the beginning of every event, and when an item's Durability reaches 0, it is no longer usable, except for Recycling. A player must check in all items they intend to use or have available to use at the beginning of an event. Any item that is not checked in and has its Durability marked down, is not legal for in-game use until it has been marked by plot.  Raw materials and consumables will eventually expire and be unable to be used.  For newly harvested raw materials and crafted items it will be 2 years after the creation date.  Raw materials and crafted items bought from traders or found while adventuring may expire sooner.

### Weapon Auras
>By default, a base weapon will use Normal as its **Damage Type**.
>
>A weapon that has been silvered may only use Silver as its **Damage Type** (ie: it can no longer swing for Normal).
>
> A weapon that has been enchanted with a Magic Aura may only swing Magic as its **Damage Type**, and cannot be silvered. If a weapon is silvered then enchanted, it also becomes a magic sword and may only swing Magic (ie, a weapon with a Magic Aura must always use Magic **Damage Type**†)
>
>A weapon may have only a single flavor or carrier enchantment (ie: a weapon cannot have both Flame Aura and Shock Aura).
>
>TL;DR: A weapon can only swing for Normal, Silver, Magic or Poison **Damage Type**, and can only be changed by a craftsman. Additionally, a weapon may also have up to one flavor/carrier aura, which is optional in the damage call.

|Enchantments|Damage Type|Flavor/Carrier|Attack Calls|
|:---:|:---|:---|:---|
|None|Normal|None|1 Normal|
|Flame Aura|Normal|Flame|1 Normal, 1 Normal Flame|
|Silvered|Silver|None|1 Silver|
|Silvered, Shock Aura|Silver|Shock|1 Silver, 1 Silver Shock|
|Magic Aura|Magic|None|1 Magic|
|Magic Aura, Stone Aura|Magic|Stone|1 Magic, 1 Magic Stone|
>
>† _Weapon Coatings and Monstrous Auras can still be used with a weapon that has a Magic Aura._

### Workshops
>Characters can purchase a Workshop from Logistics for 10 gold. Workshops have a durability of 10 and their durability is decreased each time they are used for an event by a given character. Workshops can be used to make large-scale batches of an item, doubling the total output for a single character.
>
>Ex: If you attempt to make 10 Heal Wounds potions, this would normally require 30 tiers of materials. You could either spend 15 tiers of materials to make 5 potions which will get doubled by the workshop, or spend the original 30 and get 20 potions instead.  The workshop must have a durability removed by Logistics during check-in in order to receive any batch production. More than one character may use a workshop for a given event, but each person who uses it will cost one durability.
>
> Workshops cannot be used to duplicate Artificing items.
