# Artificing

## Artificing
>Artificing is the study of the creation of magic items. Only those with at least a moderate command of each base craft can take the path of an artificer. The creation of a magic item will vary wildly in its needs based on the item. Magic items always require materials from multiple disciplines. They also require spirit gems for the infusion of their impressive powers. All artificers have access to a few base recipes that they may craft at will. Other items will require the development or acquisition of a recipe in order to be created. Recipes may also potentially be memorized, or even taught to others. Artificing requires 5 ranks in each production type.

## Attuning Enchanted Items
For a character to be able to utilize the effects of an enchanted or magical item, they must first attune that item.

Attuning requires the player to complete an entire rest while possessing an item, or come into game with the item attuned.  A character may attune multiple items at a time, however, an item may be attuned to only one character at a time.  The magic properties and enchantments of an item may only be used by a character that has attuned the item. 

Certain enchantments **do not** require attuning to be used:
* Elemental Aura
* Sticky Handle
* Destruction Magnet
* Magic Aura
* Sure Striking
* Elemental Resilience
* Omni-Elemental Aura
* Blade of Beginner's Luck
* Staunching Enchantment

> Example:  
> A character picks up a sword with a Magic Aura enchantment. The character will still swing the magic damage type despite having not attuned the sowrd.  

> Example:  
> A character picks up a shield with a Manaward Enchantment, and does not attune it. They may use the shield as a standard shield to block weapon attacks (assuming they meet all other requirements for doing so), but may not utilize the Manaward Enchantment.


## Artificing Products

>Artificers, like regular crafters, utilize recipes for their creations. All artificers have access to a Standard Library of Recipes, which they may utilize at any time, given they have the appropriate materials to construct the desired item. Other items are known to exist, which are known as uncommon recipes, and artificers may even attempt to invent their own, but these recipes must first be created or discovered to utilize new and different items.

>A magic item will generally require the following for materials in order to be crafted. A number of materials of various kinds, with a total in material ranks equal to 10 times the tier of the magic item, number of spirit gems equal to the tier of the item. All magic items have a 10 Durability.

>Uncommon recipes may sometimes be memorized or even taught by artificers. Recipes discovered in the world will have a notation on them indicating if they can be memorized, and if so, how many times before the recipe is no longer functional. They may also have a notation for how many times a recipe may be taught after being memorized, if it may be memorized at all. If an uncommon recipe is not capable of being memorized, or the artificer does not wish to memorize it, then when attempting to create the item the recipe must be shown to Logistics before the item tag will be produced.

>Presented here are the standard library of recipes, as well as any items known to the world at large as uncommon recipes, which may be discovered or re-invented.

## Standard Library

#### Create Anima Gem
   >Creates a single anima gem, which may be used in place of spirit gems.
   >3 Foraging Materials, 3 Logging Materials, and 3 Mining Materials

### Tier I

#### Elemental Aura Enchantment
   >This enchantment may be placed upon a weapon, and will allow the wielder to strike with an Elemental carrier, chosen from Flame/Frost/Shock/Stone at time of creation.<br/>
   >5 Rune Carving Materials, 5 Smithing Materials, 1 Spirit Gem.  
#### Greater Ward and Ward Key
   >Originally created by Pyramus, a Greater Ward protects a structure the approximate size of a cabin from access.  Accessing a protected structure requires use of a Greater Ward Key with a matching ID to the Greater Ward.  When using a Greater Ward Key, a character must hold the key against the ward and announce, "Ward down," after which, anyone may enter or exit the structure freely.  Anyone within a Warded structure that does not possess a matching key may Concentrate for 5 minutes to leave the structure.  Any number of Greater Ward Keys may be created at the time of the creation of the Greater Ward.  All Greater Ward Keys must have a rep.  A structure may only be under the effects of a single Glyph or Ward at any time, and a Glyph or Ward affects an entire structure, as such, they cannot be "nested" inside one another.  A structure under the effects of a Greater Ward must have each door/entry clearly and obviously display an W for Greater Ward and the Greater Ward tag must be attached to the outside of the structure with the date and time of activation and a unique ID. Greater Wards are not affected by Dispel Magic or Nullify Magic and may not be destroyed via a Destroy effect.  They may be destroyed by Destroy Ritual Magic.  A Greater Ward Key cannot be destroyed by any means.  A Greater Ward/Key lasts 5 days. This item is consumed on use.
   >10 Foraging Materials, 10 Logging Materials, 10 Smithing Materials, and 1 Spirit/Anima Gem OR 3 Gold Paid to Wizard's Guild, 4 Foraging Materials, 4 Logging Materials, 4 Smithing Materials, and 1 Spirit/Anima Gem
#### Hearthstone
   >This is a warm stone that when held during Rest, restores the wielder to their Maximum Body at the completion of Rest.  This item cannot heal the holder if the holder is Dying or Dead.<br/>
   >5 Alchemy Materials, 5 Rune Carving Materials, 1 Spirit/Anima Gem.
#### Sticky Handle Enchantment
   >This enchantment may be placed upon a weapon or shield, and will prevent the item from being disarmed. The response to the item being attempting to be disarmed is "No Effect". The sticking force also forces the character to do a 3 count in order to release the item from their grip.<br/>
   >5 Smithing Materials, 5 Alchemy Materials, 1 Spirit/Anima Gem.
#### Wand-in-the-Box Trap
> This trap, designed by an expert in two disciplines, combines the efficacy of a trap with the magical ability of a wand of magic. Upon creating this trap, the character must include a single wand of magic as crafting materials. When the trap is activated, it delivers the effects of the wand, centered on the trap as "Voice Radius Magic [Spell Name]", at a casual speaking volume, such that someone 10 feet away could hear. This may not be used with Wands that have self-cast only spells, or the Destroy spell. This item is consumed on use. <br/>
> 5 Smithing Materials, 5 Rune Carving Materials, 1 Spirit/Anima Gem. 1 Wand of Magic


### Tier II

#### Deep Breath Balm
   >A special balm infused with magically treated herbs designed to clear the airways and enhance the character's breathing. Once per rest, the bearer may partake of these benefits to enhance their use of the stamina ability Regeneration, reducing the concentration time from a minute to 30 seconds.<br/>
   >15 Alchemy Materials, 5 Rune Carving Materials, 2 Spirit/Anima Gems.
#### Destruction Magnet Enchantment
   >This enchantment may be placed upon a shield, and while held will allow the character to re-direct any Destroy effect targeted at a different piece of equipment the bearer possesses to the shield instead. The call for this is "Got it, Redirect, Resist". This enchantment also gives the shield 2x Ever Resist Destruction that stacks with any Hardening it may possess. After this enchantment has been applied, the shield may not be further hardened. This enchantment may only be applied once.<br/>
   >10 Alchemy Materials, 10 Smithing Materials, 2 Spirit/Anima Gems. 
#### Magic Aura Enchantment
   >This enchantment may be placed upon a weapon, and will change the weapon's base damage type to Magic.<br/>
   >10 Rune Carving Materials, 10 Smithing Materials, 2 Spirit/Anima Gems.

### Tier III

#### Mending Mallet
   >A special smithing hammer built for a smith on the go, with armor to repair and heads to smash. Three times per day, a character may spend stamina on Rapid Refit to refit the armor of another individual, instead of themselves, by touching them by doing a 5 count and declaring "Rapid Refit".<br/>
   >20 Smithing Materials, 10 Rune Carving Materials, 3 Spirit/Anima Gems.
#### Sure Striking Enchantment
   >This enchantment may be placed upon a weapon, and will increase the base damage of the weapon by 1. This does not stack with any similar damage increasing effects. This may only be applied to a weapon once and takes two enchantment slots.<br/>
   >15 Rune Carving Materials, 15 Smithing Materials, 3 Spirit/Anima Gems.  


### Tier IV

#### Bracers of the Seasons
   >These gauntlets will allow the wearer to change their Mana Bolts to cast with Flame/Frost/Magic/Shock/Stone without the wearer needing an active Elemental Shift.<br/>
   >20 Smithing Materials, 10 Rune Carving Materials, 10 Alchemy Materials, 4 Spirit/Anima Gems.


### Tier V

#### Elemental Resilience Enchantment
   >This enchantment may be placed upon a set of armor or shield, and will cause the wearer to take Reduced damage from Flame/Frost/Shock/Stone, of a single type chosen at creation. This does not stack with other reductions to the same element.<br/>
   >20 Rune Carving Materials, 10 Smithing Materials, 20 Alchemy Materials, 5 Spirit/Anima Gems.  

### Tier VI

#### Manaward Enchantment
> This Enchantment may be placed upon a shield, and will allow the wielder to expend uses of Spell Parry or Barrier to instead grant them Cap 10 to spell damage for 20 Seconds. The call for this is "Activate Manaward", and declaring "Cap 10" when taking spell damage.<br/>
> 30 Rune Carving Materials, 20 Smithing Materials, 10 Alchemy Materials, 6 Spirit/Anima Gems  
#### Omni-Elemental Aura Enchantment
   >This Enchantment may be placed upon a weapon, and will allow the wielder to strike with an Elemental carrier, chosen from Flame/Frost/Shock/Stone. They may swap the element with 1 minute of concentration.<br/>
   >20 Rune Carving Materials, 20 Smithing Materials, 20 Alchemy Materials, 6 Spirit/Anima Gems.
 
### Tier VII

#### Blade of Beginner's Luck
   >Enhanced with the Luck of a 5-Leaf Clover, this specially treated blade finds unlikely avenues and helps the wearer strike true where otherwise their blow may have been turned aside. The wielder does double the bonus damage while using Critical Strike ability while wielding this Blade, so if they spend 5 stamina, they would deal 10 bonus damage. But Luck is Fickle, and harder to come by as one grows older, as such, only an individual with 250 total SP or less may benefit from this weapon. This is a Passive effect.<br/>
   >40 Smithing Materials, 20 Rune Carving Materials, 10 Alchemy Materials, 7 Spirit/Anima Gems.
#### Staunching Enchantment
> This Enchantment may be placed upon a set of Armor. While worn, this enchantment will add 1 Minute to the duration of the wearer's Bleed Out timer. Any effects that would normally trigger at 59 seconds of the Bleed Out time instead trigger at 1 Minute 59 Seconds.<br/>
> 30 Smithing Materials, 30 Rune Carving Materials, 10 Alchemy Materials, 7 Spirit/Anima Gems

### Tier VIII

#### Adaptive Armor Enchantment
>This Enchantment may be placed on a set of armor, and takes 2 enchantment slots. While this is worn and while the character is repping a suit of armor worth at least 20 Armor, the value of the repped armor becomes equal to the wearer's armor cap. <br/>
> 50 Rune Carving Materials, 20 Alchemy Materials, 10 Smithing Materials, 8 Spirit/Anima Gems
#### Warding Shield Enchantment
>This Enchantment may be placed on a shield. While this shield is held, the bearer may, three times per rest, prepare a Parry, Spell Parry, or Barrier Spell as 2 Resists of the chosen type instead of a single Resist. These take up Defense Slots as normal.<br/>
> 30 Rune Carving Materials, 30 Smithing Materials, 20 Alchemy Materials, 8 Spirit/Anima Gems


### Tier IX

#### Energy Efficiency Enchantment
> This enchantment may be placed on a set of Armor, or on a weapon. This enchantment is attuned to a specific stamina ability, agility ability or spell at time of creation. While the item is worn or wielded, the bearer may activate the chosen ability or spell for 1 point less than its base cost, to a minimum of 1. This enchantment may be placed on the same item twice to utilize 2 slots, reducing the cost by an additional point for the same skill (still minimum 1), or applying to a different skill. An ability or spell may not benefit from more than a single item with this enchantment. A character may not benefit from more than a single Energy Efficiency item per rest. This may not be used for Mana Bolt, Heal Wounds or any Tier X effects.<br/>
> 30 Rune Carving Materials, 30 Alchemy Materials, 30 Smithing Materials, 9 Spirit/Anima Gems.
#### The Librarian
   >This dusty old book grants the character a 1/daily use of Voice Radius Silence.  It is activated by the verbal "Shhhhhh! Voice Radius Silence."  When used, the effect goes to the character as well.<br/>
   >50 Rune Carving Materials, 40 Alchemy Materials, 9 Spirit/Anima Gems.

### Tier X

#### Sacrificial Shield
> This specially crafted shield is designed with the safety of the bearer's companions in mind, above and beyond their own well-being. While wielding the Sacrificial Shield, the cost of Intercept is reduced to 0 when using Intercept for melee weapon attacks, not for Physical Strikes, Toxins, Spells, Spellstrike or any other effect.<br/>
> 60 Smithing Materials, 30 Rune Carving Materials, 10 Alchemy Materials, 10 Spirit/Anima Gems
#### Vessel of Salvation
   >This item allows a character who possesses it to add 5 minutes to their Death Timer. It must be used prior to the target beginning their Death count.  This item is ineffective on characters that crumble at 0 body, have a spirit bottle, or otherwise do not possess a Death Timer.  This effect may not be stacked, modified, or removed from the target.<br/>
   >50 Rune Carving Materials, 30 Alchemy Materials, 20 Smithing Materials, 10 Spirit/Anima Gems.

## Uncommon Recipes

### Tier I

#### Bloodhound's Nose Ring
   >This specially crafted and treated ring is designed to enhance the character's natural sense of smell. Two times a day, the character can invoke the power of the Bloodhound and gain the ability to track a target that has Rifted.  This effect persists until Rest.<br/>
   >5 Smithing Materials, 5 Rune Carving Materials, 1 Spirit Gem.

### Tier II

### Tier III

### Tier IV

### Tier V

#### Globe of Radiance
   > A ball that sparkles in the dimmest of lights, this item is a specially designed focus for a mage who can use the spell Blinding Light. Once per day, the bearer may deliver Blinding Light as Voice Radius by channeling the spell through the globe, however, the light is so bright that it in turn also affects the character.<br/>
   > 20 Alchemy Materials, 20 Rune Carving Materials, 10 Smithing Materials, 5 Spirit/Anima Gems.

### Tier VI

#### Sharpened Wit
   > A seemingly mundane weapon, this bladed weapon can aid in the efficiency of channeling mana.  At will, a wielder that utilizes Spellstrike may forgo the use of a spell's incant and use Spellstrike Deliverance, allowing them to deliver any spell they possess as "Spellstrike [Spell Name]".<br/>
   > 30 Smithing Materials, 20 Rune Carving Materials, 10 Alchemy Materials, 6 Spirit/Anima Gems

### Tier VII

### Tier VIII

#### Alphastrike Potion
   > This potion overflows with power, practically crying out to be used. Upon imbibing, the drinker is granted unlimited mana, stamina, and agility and for 20 seconds. The drinker does not need to possess mana, stamina or agility to be granted these powers, and for the duration they may use any abilities from any school at will. No more than 10 of any resource may be spent on a single ability or spell. In the event that the character memorized any of these pools, their memorization ends and they may cast on the fly. However, at the end of those 20 seconds, the raging power takes its toll, dropping all pools to 0 and they are unable to restore these pools by any means, including another Alphastrike Potion, other than completing a full Rest. This is consumed on use.<br/>
   > 50 Alchemy Materials, 20 Rune Carving Materials, 10 Smithing Materials, 8 Spirit/Anima Gems
   
### Tier IX

#### Shield of the Last Stand
   > This incredible shield is imbued with the fortitude and resolve to shrug off even the most heinous blows in the face of overwhelming odds, knowing that it may be only your act that spares your allies from death. The bearer of this shield may invoke its power by planting their feet and declaring "I Make My Last Stand". Once activated, the Shield may not be dropped, and the bearer becomes immune to all effects of their choice other than Aether for 5 minutes. However, this power comes at a cost. After the 5 minutes is up, their body immediately dissipates and their spirit departs to seek resurrection.<br/>
   > 50 Smithing Materials, 30 Rune Carving Materials, 10 Alchemy Materials, 9 Spirit/Anima Gems

### Tier X

#### Mage's Folly
   > An item of fearsome power and renown, it earned its name for the often fatal after effects of those with the hubris to use this item without proper respect for the consequences. At will, the wearer of Mage's Folly may Voice Radius deliver any spell they are capable of casting. However, upon doing so they are struck by a non-resistable, incurable Silence for 5 minutes.  This item may not be used to deliver any self only spells, any spells that only affect items (ex: Destroy), or Circle of Power.<br/>
   > 50 Rune Carving Materials, 30 Smithing Materials, 20 Alchemy Materials, 10 Spirit/Anima Gems.
