# Knowledge Skills

>Knowledge skills are a way through which characters can gather information about the world around them. These skills are gained automatically as a character gains Skill Points (SP), choosing a Profession and Hobby, with their Profession being your "main focus" and scaling faster. Once they have capped a Profession or Hobby at Rank 10, they may select a new one immediately to begin scaling, and it starts with 1 rank. A Profession goes up in rank every 50 SP, and each Hobby goes up in rank every 100 SP. So they will unlock their second Profession at 450 SP, and both their Second Hobby and Third Profession at 900 SP, and so on. Each knowledge represents a specific area of expertise of which a character has a learned understanding.  Knowledges do not allow a character to be able to perform the practical skills, but they do give the character the knowledge of it.  For example, a character with Geographic Knowledge may be able to read maps, know about different terrain, and roughly determine where certain biomes may be, but it does not give this character the ability to traverse difficult terrain with greater ease.  
>Knowledges can be utilized in a variety of ways and may have interactions with other skills and abilities.  Some common ways they are used include Mod Marshals asking for knowledge skills at the beginning of a module to help flesh out what the characters might discover.  Even during a mod, interaction with a Mod Marshal may give a character information about what something specific in that moment.  Knowledges can also enhance other skills and abilities a character knows, which may be applicable when dealing with related things.  For example, the First Aid skill and Spirit Knowledge may give a character greater understanding of the effects of Spirit healing magic on the physical body.  The Tracking skill and the Economic Knowledge may give a character a bonus for tracking in relation to trade routes or goods.  There are many potential combinations, so be sure to ask the Mod Marshal.
>Generally, any piece of information that a player will attempt to discover will be assigned a "difficulty class" by Plot, on a scaling slide of 1 through 10. A difficulty class of 1 would represent fairly common knowledge, something that most anyone who cares about the subject would know. A 10 would represent particularly unusual or rare information, such as something that only a true expert in the field would have discovered. If they have enough ranks in the knowledge to meet the difficulty class, they may learn some useful information. Having less than the set difficulty class may result in incomplete or slightly misleading information, and having more ranks may result in getting more detailed or extra information.

## Anthropology Knowledge
Covers the past and present behaviors, biology and cultures of the sentient races.  Culture refers to the learned behavior of people, including their languages, belief systems, customs, social structures and institutions, and corporeal, tangible objects that are created, used, kept, and left behind by past and present peoples.  This Knowledge does not provide details on political, historical, or economic topics.  Higher ranks will allow for knowledge of more niche details for what may be a less common race

## Arcane Magic Knowledge
Covers Arcane Magic in all its forms and uses. Higher ranks will provide greater insight to Arcane questions or provide more detailed information on the target of an inquiry.

## Cosmology Knowledge
Covers the nature of the universe and its various planes, including distinct knowledge of specific planes such as its people, origin, structure, and physical relation to other planes.  Additionally covers the theoretical knowledge of rifting and portals.

## Criminal Knowledge  
Covers laws (their avoidance and subversion), various criminal organizations and their structure, cons, and illegal activity. Higher ranks will point one to contacts within some of these organizations or reveal information some may regret knowing.

## Economic Knowledge  
Covers trade routes, values of goods, and merchants of specific items. Higher ranks will reveal more hidden information or let someone sniff out particularly good deals.

## Engineering Knowledge
Covers civil engineering and infrastructure such as bridges, aqueducts, walls, buildings, roads, cranes, siege weapons, etc.  It cannot be used to affect game mechanics.  Higher ranks will allow for more detailed insights.

## Geographical Knowledge  
Covers landmarks, terrain, maps, roads, approximate distances, and navigation. Higher ranks will allow for more detailed information or better navigation.

## Historical Knowledge  
Covers recent to far-flung historical events which may include limited information related to other knowledge realms such as historical political, cultural, or economic events.  Higher ranks will allow for knowledge of the distant past or more accurate recollections of events.

## Nature Magic Knowledge  
Covers Nature Magic in all its forms and uses.  Higher ranks will provide greater insight to Nature questions or provide more detailed information on the target of an inquiry.

## Political Knowledge  
Covers laws (their enforcement and creation), local and foreign political hierarchy, ideologies, policies and processes, government, strategy, alliances, hostilities, territories, holdings, and war. Higher ranks will reveal well-hidden information or let one find the truth behind malicious rumors.

## Spirit Magic Knowledge  
Covers Spirit Magic in all its forms and uses. Higher ranks will provide greater insight to Spirit questions or provide more detailed information on the target of an inquiry.

## Survivalist Knowledge  
Covers the knowledge of subjects related to outdoor survival and living in the wild, such as how to construct emergency shelter, making fire, securing food (hunting, fishing, foraging), identifying plants and animals, locating and purifying water, and some navigation techniques.  A survivalist may be able to recognize the mark left by a creature, but to truly track them they will need the Tracking skill.

## Thanatology Knowledge
Covers the study of death, dying, necromancy, thaumaturgy, psychopomps, and the undead.  It additionally covers the mechanisms and forensic aspects of death such as the application and use of last rites as well as burial and cremation practices.

## Theology Knowledge  
Covers churches, cults, religious beliefs, deities, and gods. Higher ranks will reveal more in-depth information on various groups or reveal hidden aspects.
