# NPCs & Benefits

## What is a NPC?

---
A NPC is a Non-Player Character.  In most game systems, this is a fictional character that cannot be played or controlled by a real-world person.  In LARP, every character is controlled by a real-world person, but for us, NPC means that this person is an extension of the plot team.  They are playing a character, a monster, serving as a Ritual Marshal, Game Marshal, or directing a mod for characters.  NPCs might be as simple as a town guard, a wild wolf, a giant beetle, a merchant with exclusive wares, or even a rich noble!

At Chronicles, we LOVE when people volunteer to NPC, because those volunteers help us bring stories to life!  NPCing is also a great way to get a crash course through game systems like combat and magic and explore putting on a new personality.

## What does a NPC do?

---
Most often, a NPC will be asked to assist a Plot member with a mod or story event.  Some of the tasks they might have include dressing up, putting on creature make-up, and serving as a mob or monster meant to challenge the player characters (PCs) on a particular mob.  A NPC might also be what is commonly called a "crunchie".  These are monsters that are often minor or weaker and will directly invade the town or pick off PCs that have wandered off unsafely alone.

Some other tasks may be helping to organize and clean NPC camp, making spell packets, running small mods on their own as a particular kind of NPC such as a merchant, a thief, or a gambler.   NPCs may also be asked to act as a mod-runner for a small group.  This last option is usually only asked of NPCs that have shown they have interest in doing so and have the trust of the plot team to make it a fun experience for the PCs.

## NPC Shifts

---
First, let's start by identifying the two kinds of NPCs:

A **Part Time NPC** is someone that volunteers for a full shift at least one day of the event.  Part Time NPCs also play their characters during the event.  For a Part Time NPC, a full shift is **three hours**.  A Part-Time NPC may work as many hours in a single day as they like.  Each three hour shift is counted as a completed shift.  Rewards can be claimed on a "one shift per single event day" basis.  
>For example, in a three day event, a three hour shift on Friday, six hour shift on Saturday, and a three hour shift on Sunday only counts as three full shifts for the Skill Point or Goblin Point reward.  Because it's a three day event, that particular reward can only be claimed three times.  Mystery Sacks may be claimed for EVERY completed three hour shift.

A **Full Time NPC** is someone that serves as a NPC for the entire event.  They do not play their character at all during the event.  For a Full Time NPC, a full shift is the number of days in an event, which may be two or three.  To be a Full Time NPC, a player must coordinate with Plot ahead of an event.

## Double-Hooking, the Plot Queue, and NPC Shifts

---
Double-hooking is a term used for when two groups of PCs are waiting on Plot for a particular mod and are either asked by Plot or agree Out Of Character (OOC) for each group to serve as NPCs for the other group's mod.  When it comes to the plot team's queue, these groups are very likely to be taken ahead of others because less preparation for handling NPC logistics for a given mod may become much easier when players have two groups ready.

In general, participating in a double-hook does not count towards a Part-Time NPC shift; however, in rare circumstances, such as double-hooking in a mod that runs for the length of a normal Part-Time NPC shift or more, Plot has full discretion to credit a player with a completed shift.  If a player has already completed a shift that day, be sure to clarify what rewards they are gaining, because they might be limited to partial or they may get everything.


## NPC Rewards

---
Aside from the shiny feel-good emotions of having helped out their chapter, Chronicles also gives those that volunteer as NPCs rewards in several forms!  <i>(Please note that while Plot and Staff are likely to have water and snacks at NPC camp, meals at the Tavern are not free to NPCs unless specifically stated by the player running the tavern.)</i>

### Part-Time NPC Rewards
* The player's pick of either 1 Skill Point OR 100 Goblin Points.  This reward may be claimed only once for each completed shift per event day.  If the event is two days, they may claim this twice for six hours or two completed NPC shifts.  If the event is three days, they may claim this three times for nine hours or three completed NPC shifts.

* Mystery Sack.  This is a grab bag reward that will contain one of the following:
  * A bundle of five Tier 1 crafting materials.
  * A single Tier 5 crafting material.
  * A bundle of seven Tier 1 crafting materials.
  * One gold coin.

### Full-Time NPC Rewards
* 400 Goblin Points for a two day event.
* 600 Goblin Points for a three day event.
* Full Skill Point accrual, plus an additional reward of 1 Skill Point per day.
* Free Event Fee.
* Three Mystery Sacks per event day.  These are a grab bag reward that each contain one of the following:
  * A bundle of five Tier 1 crafting materials.
  * A single Tier 5 crafting material.
  * A bundle of seven Tier 1 crafting materials.
  * One gold coin.

### Guest Plot Rewards
* 600 Goblin Points for a two day event.
* 900 Goblin Points for a three day event.
* Full Skill Point accrual, plus an additional reward of 1 Skill Point per day.
* Free Event Fee & Meal Ticket.
* Five Mystery Sacks per event day.  These are a grab bag reward that each contain one of the following:
  * A bundle of five Tier 1 crafting materials.
  * A single Tier 5 crafting material.
  * A bundle of seven Tier 1 crafting materials.
  * One gold coin.

## How Do I Claim Mystery Sacks?

---
Mystery Sacks are automatically filled after the event and can be picked up as part of any production requests during check-in.
