# Standing Policies

## Transfer Policy

### Character Conversion from Other LARP Systems

---
* You may import your LARP character to Chronicles ONCE.  This is available to players from LARP Systems such as NERO or Alliance LARP, or similarly recognized systems.
* You may choose to have your character transported to Evren from another world (keeping your character's memories and history), OR you may choose to use your skill points to create an entirely new, Evren-based character.
* Importing your character does not invalidate your membership with other LARP organizations or your characters.
* Attending Chronicles events will have no impact on your character in other LARP Systems.
* After conversion, attending non-Chronicles LARP events will have no impact on your Chronicles character.
* All build points transfer to Chronicles as Skill Points.  If this number is below one hundred, you will start with one hundred Skill Points in Chronicles.
* Transforms _may_ transfer into Chronicles, at the discretion of the plot team, on a per-case basis.

### Money, Gems & Items

---
* Coins, gems, and/or bank values from other LARP Systems do not transfer to Chronicles.
* Magic items and/or production items from other LARP Systems do not transfer to Chronicles.


### Goblin Points

Goblin Points from other LARP Systems do not transfer to Chronicles, but we do have our own Goblin Point reward system you can participate in.


## Code of Conduct & Disciplinary Rules

While we never hope this to be the case, if anyone is breaking Chronicles rules, the Code of Conduct, violating the rules of the rental site, or causing problems and/or disruptions to the event, they will be subject to an escalating response from Plot and Staff.  This is outlined with more detail in the [Code of Conduct](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1rn8_-PmbtBhRNPs0cJDY6ccTxmmNL0Sr?usp=share_link).

## COVID Precautions

We follow guidelines from the CDC and the state of Illinois.  Please get your vaccinations.  If you feel sick, stay home.

Face masks are welcome.  NPC Camp/Logistics will have N95 and KN95 masks available at check in.

### Covid Tests
(As of 2023-03-01)

We are not requiring the submission of negative COVID tests.  Testing remains encouraged in order to protect yourself and the members of our community that are immunocompromised or high-risk.

COVID Resources, How to get Tests, and Test Submission info can be found here: http://larpchronicles.com/covid


## Summer Armor & Make-up Policy
In cases of extreme weather, staff may declare special exceptions for armor and make-up requirements.

For armor, this would allow players to have their full armor points based on the assessment of their armor reps during check in, but would not require them to wear all armor pieces.

For make up, this would lift the requirement of full face make up, so long as the character's race is still clearly represented.